```markdown
# Page 1
لله
B
لله
♡
لله
B
لله
♡
لله
2
ap
♡
B
ap
ap
ap
THE LAW OF
ROOT
B
لله
B
لله
♡
ap
B
لله
Table of Contents
B
1. Golden Rules
2
13. Corvid Conspiracy
14
2. Key Concepts
3
14. Lord of the Hundreds
14
3. Victory
3
15. Keepers in Iron
16
لله
4. Key Actions
4
Appendix A. Advanced Setup 17
5. Setup
4
Appendix B. Components
18
6. Marquise de Cat
5
Appendix C. Variant Maps
19
7. Eyrie Dynasties
6
Appendix D. Vagabonds
20
8. Woodland Alliance
7
Appendix E. Hirelings
♡
20
9. Vagabond
8
Appendix F. Landmarks
21
10. Lizard Cult
10
Appendix G. Glossary
21
11. Riverfolk Company
as
11
Index
22
12. Underground Duchy
12
له
ap
♡
B
ap
0
♡
(September 5, 2024)

# Page 2
Reading the Law
Text in SMALL CAPITALS defines key terms.
Text in italics gives reminders and clarifi-
cations. Faction icons mark rules modified
by Faction Rules and Abilities sections.

Root contains two rulebooks: the Learning to Play guide
and this book, the Law. If you like a conversational
teaching style and many graphical examples, read the
Learning to Play guide. If you like a strictly defined,
formal rules in a concise reference style, read the Law.

These rules of thumb will help you interpret the Law.
Q1. I'd like to do something, and the rules don't say
that I can't do it. Can I do it?
A1. Within the confines of the action, yes! The game will often
surprise you with outlandish, unexpected situations, and that's
part of the fun, but this doesn't mean you can flip the table.

Q2. Can another player not consent to an action?
A2. No actions require consent. Just do the thing.

Q3. It seems like something should happen, but the
rule doesn't tell me to do that thing. What do I do?
A3. Follow the literal word of the Law, not your instinct, even
if a similar rule exists.

Q4. A rule uses a specific term or action. Does it also
include another, closely related term or action?
A4. Nope! Assume we mean only the original term and not any
related terms. For example, the terms Move and PLACE are dif-
ferent, which is important in rules such as The Keep (6.2.2).

If you have any other questions, check our website for
more answers: ledergames.com/root

If you have any missing or damaged components, you
can go here for support: ledergames.com/replacements

1. Golden Rules
This chapter gives answers to technical, detailed ques-
tions. You do not need to read it when first learning.

1.1 RULES CONFLICTS
1.1.1 Precedence. If a card conflicts with the Law, follow
the card. If the Learning to Play guide conflicts with
the Law, follow the Law. If you can follow both a gen-
eral rule and a faction or hireling rule, follow both; if
you cannot, follow the faction or hireling rule.
1.1.2 Use of CANNOT. The term CANNOT is absolute. It
cannot be overridden unless explicitly instructed.
1.1.3 Unclear Resolutions and Choices. Whenever it is
unclear what order simultaneous effects should re-
solve in, or which player should make a decision,
the player taking their turn chooses.
2
1.2 PUBLIC AND PRIVATE INFORMATION
1.2.1 Hands. Players may only show or reveal cards in
their hand if explicitly instructed, but the number
of cards in their hand is public information.
1.2.2 Discard. The discard pile can be searched and in-
spected at any time.

1.3 NEGOTIATION AND DEALS
1.3.1 Agreements. Players may discuss the game and
make agreements, but they are non-binding.
1.3.2 Cards. Players may only give cards to each other
if explicitly instructed.

1.4 GAME STRUCTURE
1.4.1 Turn Structure. Each player's turn has three
phases: Birdsong, Daylight, and Evening. Any-
thing that says "at start of" a phase happens be-
fore everything else in the phase, and anything
that says "at end of" happens after everything else
in the phase but before the start of the next phase,
if any. After a player ends Evening, the next clock-
wise player begins their turn. Play continues until
one player has won the game (3.1).
1.4.2 Interrupts. You cannot interrupt an action (in-
cluding a compound action such as the Marquise's
March), ability (such as the Corvids' Exposure), or
persistent effect (such as the Eyrie Emigre card) with
another effect unless it explicitly allows it. (For ex-
ample, the Armorers card says it is used "In battle...").

1.5 PIECES
1.5.1 Limits. Pieces are limited by the contents of the
game. Do not use proxy pieces if you run out.
1.5.2 Starting Faction. Each player owns the faction
they choose in setup (5) and the pieces listed on
the back of its faction board except for items. Ge-
nerically, these are called FACTION PIECES or sim-
ilar. Specifically, these are called [FACTION NAME]
PIECES. (For example, "your faction warriors" and
"warriors of your faction" and "Marquise warriors" all
refer to the orange wooden cat-shaped warriors.)
1.5.3 Piece Ownership. The ownership of faction piec-
es cannot change. (For example, the Marquise can-
not use Field Hospitals on Riverfolk mercenaries or
hirelings, since these are not Marquise warriors.)
1.5.4 Piece Manipulation. Pieces are placed and re-
moved as defined in the Glossary (G.1.19, G.1.22).
If you are prompted to place, take, or remove piec-
es but you cannot do so fully, you must place, take,
or remove the maximum number possible. (This
does not let you avoid costs or prerequisites. You just can-
not do less than the most you can.) If multiple pieces
are removed simultaneously and that would trigger
effects, remove all pieces before triggering effects.
1.5.5 Use of FORCE. Some effects let you Force a play-
er or their pieces to act. Resolve this exactly as if
that player were choosing to do this, as limited by
the effect. (For example, if you force the Eyrie to move
warriors, they benefit from Lords of the Forest.)

# Page 3
2. Key Concepts
Terms are defined strictly in the Glossary (Appendix G).

2.1 CARDS
You draw cards from the top of the shared deck, and
discard to a shared discard pile. If the deck is ever emp-
ty, shuffle the discard pile immediately to form a new
deck. Each card has a suit: bird, fox, rabbit, or mouse.
Most cards also have an effect you can craft (4.1).
2.1.1 Birds Are Wild. You can treat any bird card as a
card of another suit, even if you must spend, take,
or give multiple cards of the same suit.
I Forced Effects. If you are prompted to discard
or give cards of non-bird suits, you must treat
your bird cards as a prompted suit.
II Reverse Substitution. If you are prompted to
spend, discard, take, or give a bird card, you
cannot substitute a card of another suit.
2.1.2 Ambush Cards. There are five AMBUSH CARDS: one
mouse, one rabbit, one fox, and two birds. You
may spend an ambush card for its suit, but it does
not have a crafted effect. You may also play one in
battle to deal hits (4.3.1).
2.1.3 Dominance Cards. There are four DOMINANCE
CARDS matching the four suits. You may spend a
dominance card for its suit, but it cannot be craft-
ed. You may also play one to permanently change
your victory condition (3.3).

2.2 CLEARINGS AND PATHS
The map of the Woodland is composed of many CLEAR-
INGS linked by PATHS.
2.2.1 Adjacency. A clearing is adjacent to all other clear-
ings linked to it by a path.
2.2.2 Suit. Each clearing has a SUIT: mouse, rabbit, or fox.
2.2.3 Slots. Each clearing has a number of BUILDING
SLOTS (white boxes). Whenever you place a build-
ing, it fills an open slot. You cannot place a build-
ing in a clearing with no open slots.
2.2.4 Ruins. Slots marked with a small "R" begin the
game filled with RUINS. Ruins cannot be removed
unless explicitly instructed (such as by the Vaga-
bond's Explore action, 9.5.3).

2.3 RIVERS
Many clearings are linked by rivers. (Rivers are not
paths, but can be treated as paths if explicitly instructed. Riv-
ers do not divide clearings or forests.)

2.4 FORESTS
Areas on the map enclosed by printed paths and clear-
ings are called FORESTS.
2.4.1 Adjacency. A forest is adjacent to all clearings that
touch it without crossing a printed path, and it is
adjacent to all forests that are separated by only
one printed path.
2.5 RULE
A player rules a clearing if they have more total war-
riors and buildings in it than each other player. (Tokens
and pawns do not contribute to rule.) If there is a tie be-
tween players in a clearing, no one rules it. A

3. Victory
3.1 HOW TO WIN
The first player to reach 30 victory points immediate-
ly wins the game. If multiple players reach 30 or more
victory points simultaneously, the player taking the cur-
rent turn wins.

3.2 SCORING VICTORY POINTS
Each faction has a unique way to score victory points,
but any faction can score victory points as follows.
3.2.1 Removing Buildings and Tokens. Whenever you
remove an enemy's building or token, you score
one victory point.
3.2.2 Crafting Items. Whenever you craft an item (4.1),
score the victory points listed on the card.

3.3 DOMINANCE CARDS
The deck has four dominance cards, which let you win
the game without scoring 30 victory points.
3.3.1 Activating. During your Daylight, if you have at
least 10 victory points, you may ACTIVATE a domi-
nance card in your hand by placing it in your play
area. Remove your score marker from the score
track. You can no longer score victory points.❤
I Mouse, Rabbit, or Fox Dominance. You win
the game immediately if you rule three clear-
ings of the suit matching the activated domi-
nance card at the start of your Birdsong.
II Bird Dominance. You win the game immedi-
ately if you rule two clearings in opposite cor-
ners at the start of your Birdsong.
3.3.2 Activated Cards. An activated dominance card
does not count against your hand limit, and it
cannot be removed from play. You cannot replace
an activated dominance card with a different one.
3.3.3 Using Dominance Cards. A dominance card can be
spent for its suit. Anytime a dominance card would
be placed in the discard pile, instead place it near
the map to show it is AVAILABLE to be taken.
3.3.4 Taking Available Cards. During your Daylight,
you can take an available dominance card into
your hand by spending a card of matching suit.
You cannot treat an available bird dominance
card as a non-bird suit.
3

# Page 4
4. Key Actions
4.1 CRAFT
You can CRAFT most cards from your hand to gain an
immediate or persistent effect.
4.1.1 Cost. To craft a card, you must ACTIVATE crafting
pieces of the suits listed in the card's bottom-left
corner. (A faction's crafting piece is listed in its Craft-
ing section.) A crafting piece's suit matches its
clearing. Each crafting piece may be activated
only once per turn. A three-color question mark
denotes a crafting piece of any suit.
4.1.2 Immediate Effects. When you craft an immediate
effect (paper box), resolve its effect and then dis-
card the card. If it shows an item, take the match-
ing item from the item supply on the map and
place it in the Crafted Items box on your faction
board. If the card lists an item not in the item sup-
ply, the card cannot be crafted.
4.1.3 Persistent Effects. When you craft a persistent ef-
fect (stone box), place it in your play area. You may
use the effect described on the card.
4.1.4 No Duplicates. You cannot craft a persistent ef-
fect if you have an identical one in your play area.

4.2 MOVE
When you move, take any number (more than zero) of
your warriors and pawns from one clearing and move
them on a linking path (2.2) to one adjacent clearing.
4.2.1 You Must Rule. To take a move, you must rule
the origin clearing, destination clearing, or both.
4.2.2 No Movement Limits. A given piece can be
moved any number of times per turn. If you are
prompted to take multiple moves, you may move
the same or separate groups of warriors.

4.3 BATTLE
When you BATTLE, choose a clearing with any number
of your warriors and pawns as the CLEARING OF BATTLE.
You are the ATTACKER. Choose an enemy in the clearing
of battle to be the DEFENDER.
4.3.1 Step 1: Defender May Ambush. The defender
may play one ambush card matching the clearing
of battle. If so, resolve 4.3.1.I-II in order.
4
I Foil Ambush. The attacker may also play an
ambush card matching the clearing of the bat-
tle. If they do, the defender discards their am-
bush card and skips 4.3.1.II.
II Resolve Ambush. The defender deals two hits
immediately (4.3.4). Then, the defender dis-
cards the ambush card. If no attacking warriors
or pawns remain, end the battle immediately.
4.3.2 Step 2: Roll Dice. Roll both dice. The attacker
will deal hits equal to the higher roll, and the de-
fender will deal hits equal to the lower roll. If the
rolls are equal, attacker and defender will deal the
same number of hits. (The use of "will" here reflects
that hits are not dealt until step 4.)
I Maximum Rolled Hits. The maximum hits
you can deal from rolling equals the number of
your warriors in the clearing of battle, whether
you are the attacker or defender.
4.3.3 Step 3: Use Effects. The attacker and defender
may use optional effects (such as the Brutal Tactics
card) that affect battle. If both want to use effects,
the attacker chooses who uses them first (1.1.3).
I Extra Hits. Many effects will deal EXTRA HITS,
which are not limited by the number of war-
riors in the clearing of battle.
II Defenseless. If the defender has no warriors in
the clearing of battle, the attacker will deal an
extra hit.
4.3.4 Step 4: Deal Hits. Each hit that a side deals re-
moves one piece of the other side from the clearing
of battle. (You score one victory point per enemy build-
ing or token removed.) The side taking hits chooses
the order in which their own pieces are removed,
but all of their warriors there must be removed be-
fore any of their buildings or tokens there can be
removed; they also choose the order of any effects
triggered by their pieces being removed.

5. Setup
If any players are new to the game, use the Standard
Setup (5.1) If everyone has played and you want more
variety, use the Advanced Setup (Appendix A). If you
want to play with five or more factions that would start
in corner clearings, you must use the Advanced Setup.

5.1 STANDARD SETUP
5.1.1 Step 1: Assign Factions and Starting Player.
Assign one faction to each player in any way.
Determine the starting player and seating order
randomly. Each player takes their chosen faction
board and the pieces listed on its back.
5.1.2 Step 2: Place Score Markers. Each player places
their score marker on "0" on the score track.
5.1.3 Step 3: Draw Starting Hands. If you are play-
ing with two players, remove all four dominance
cards from the deck. Shuffle the deck. Each player
draws three cards.
5.1.4 Step 4: Place Ruins. Place a ruin in each slot on
the map marked with an "R" (four in total).

# Page 5
5.1.5 Step 5: Form Item Supply. Place these items on
the matching spaces of the item supply near the
top of the map: 27, 28, 1 1 2,2,2
5.1.6 Step 6: Gather Other Pieces. Hand out the 16
faction overview cards as desired, and place the
two dice near the map.
5.1.7 Step 7: Set Up Factions. In setup order (A, B, C,
etc.), each player follows their faction's setup in-
structions, listed in their rules section and on the
back of their faction board.

5.2 REACH
To set up an interesting game, choose factions whose
REACH values add up to at least the total reach recom-
mended for your player count. (Adventurous players are
welcome to use any faction mix with 17+ Reach.)

Viable Reach Sums
Players
2
3
4
5
6
Total Reach 17+ 18+ 21+ 25+ 28+

Reach Values
Marquise de Cat
10
Lord of the Hundreds
9
Keepers in Iron
8
Underground Duchy
8
Eyrie Dynasties
7
Vagabond (first/second)
5/2
Riverfolk Company
5
Woodland Alliance
3
Corvid Conspiracy
3
Lizard Cult
2

6. Marquise de Cat
6.1 OVERVIEW
The Marquise de Cat occupies the Woodland and wants
to turn it into an industrial and military powerhouse.
Each time the Marquise builds one of her Buildings-a
workshop, sawmill, or recruiter-she scores victory
points. The more of the same building she has on the
map, the more points she scores. However, to fuel on-
going construction, the Marquise must maintain and
protect a strong, interconnected economy of WOOD.

6.2 FACTION RULES AND ABILITIES
6.2.1 Crafting. The Marquise crafts during Daylight by
activating workshops.
6.2.2 The Keep. The Marquise can place pieces in the
clearing with the keep token, and other players
cannot. (Pieces may be moved into it. If the keep is
removed, there is no way to place it on the map again.)
6.2.3 Field Hospitals. Whenever any number of Mar-
quise warriors are removed from a clearing, the
Marquise may spend a card matching that clear-
ing to place those warriors in the clearing with
the keep token instead of the Marquise's supply.
6.3 FACTION SETUP
6.3.1 Step 1: Gather Warriors and Wood. Form sup-
plies of 25 warriors and 8 wood tokens.
6.3.2 Step 2: Place Keep. Place the keep token in any
corner clearing. This is your starting clearing.
6.3.3 Step 3: Garrison. Place a warrior in each clearing
except the clearing in the diagonally opposite cor-
ner from the clearing with the keep token.
6.3.4 Step 4: Place Starting Buildings. Place 1 saw-
mill, 1 workshop, and 1 recruiter. You may place
them among the clearing with the keep token and
any adjacent clearings, in any combination.
6.3.5 Step 5: Fill Buildings Tracks. Place your re-
maining 5 sawmills, 5 workshops, and 5 recruit-
ers on your matching Buildings tracks from right
to left. (Leave the leftmost space of each track empty.)

6.4 BIRDSONG
Place wood tokens in each clearing with any number of
sawmills, one wood per sawmill there.

6.5 DAYLIGHT
First, you may activate workshops to craft cards from
your hand. Then, you may take up to three actions-
plus one action per bird card you spend (not as part of
an action)-in any order and number.
6.5.1 Battle. Initiate a battle.
6.5.2 March. Take up to two moves.
6.5.3 Recruit. Place one warrior at each recruiter. You
may take this action only once per turn.
6.5.4 Build. Place a building.
I Choose Clearing and Building. Choose a
clearing you rule. Choose whether you want
to place a sawmill, workshop, or recruiter. You
will place the leftmost building of its type from
your faction board. You must be able to pay its
cost (6.5.4.II) and place it (6.5.4.III).
II Pay Cost. Find the chosen building's cost at
the top of its column. Remove wood tokens
equal in number to the cost from the chosen
clearing, any adjacent clearings you rule, or any
clearings connected to the chosen clearing you
rule through any number of clearings you rule.
III Place Building and Score. Place the chosen
building in the chosen clearing, and score the
victory points listed on the space uncovered on
your faction board.
6.5.5 Overwork. Spend a card matching the clearing of
a sawmill, and place a wood token there.

6.6 EVENING
Draw one card, plus one card per uncovered draw bo-
nus. Then, if you have more than five cards in your
hand, discard cards of your choice until you have five.
5

# Page 6
6
7. Eyrie Dynasties
7.1 OVERVIEW
The Eyrie Dynasties wish to restore their once-
dignified kind to their former glory in the Woodland
by retaking control of the forest clearings. During
their Evening, the Eyrie score victory points based on
the number of roosts on the map. The greater their
presence in the Woodland, the greater their gains.
However, the Eyrie are bound by their Decree, an ev-
er-increasing set of mandated actions promised by their
LEADER. Each turn, they must take all of the actions on
their Decree, or else fall into TURMOIL.

7.2 FACTION RULES AND ABILITIES
7.2.1 Crafting. The Eyrie craft before resolving the De-
cree during Daylight by activating roosts.
7.2.2 Lords of the Forest. The Eyrie rule a clearing
when tied for most combined warriors and
buildings there, and they have at least one Eyrie
piece there.0
7.2.3 Disdain for Trade. Whenever the Eyrie craft an
item, they ignore the listed victory points and in-
stead score only one victory point. (They can still
score extra crafting points from effects such as Master
Engravers and the Legendary Forge.)

7.3 FACTION SETUP
7.3.1 Step 1: Gather Warriors. Form a supply of
20 warriors.
7.3.2 Step 2: Place Roost and Starting Warriors. Place
1 roost and 6 warriors in a corner clearing that is
not the starting corner clearing of another play-
er and, if possible, is diagonally opposite from a
starting corner clearing. This is your starting clear-
ing. (This is updated from earlier printings for flexibility.)
7.3.3 Step 3: Choose Leader. Choose 1 of the 4 Eyrie
leader cards and place it in your Leader Card slot.
Gather the remaining leaders face up near you.
7.3.4 Step 4: Tuck Viziers. Tuck your 2 Loyal Vizier
cards, showing their suit, into the Decree columns
above your faction board as listed on your leader.
7.3.5 Step 5: Fill Roosts Track. Place your 6 remaining
roosts on your Roosts track from right to left.

7.4 BIRDSONG
Your Birdsong has three steps in the following order.
7.4.1 Emergency Orders. If you have no cards in your
hand, draw one card.
7.4.2 Add to the Decree. You must add one or two cards
to the Decree, but only one card added may be a
bird card. You may play each card to any column,
and each column can hold any number of cards.
7.4.3 A New Roost. If you have no roosts on the map,
place a roost and three warriors in a clearing
with the fewest warriors where all those pieces
can be placed.
7.5 DAYLIGHT
Your Daylight has two steps in the following order.
7.5.1 Craft. You may activate roosts to craft cards from
your hand.
7.5.2 Resolve the Decree. You must resolve the Decree,
starting with the leftmost column and moving
right. In each column, you must resolve all of its
cards, but in any order. For each card, you must
take the action listed for its column, as follows. If
you cannot fully take an action, you immediately
fall into turmoil (7.7).
I Recruit. Place a warrior in any clearing with a
roost whose suit matches the card suit.
II Move. Move from any clearing whose suit
matches the card suit. (You must move at least
one warrior.)
III Battle. Initiate a battle in any clearing whose
suit matches the card suit.
IV Build. Place a roost in any clearing you rule
whose suit matches the card suit and which
has no roost.

7.6 EVENING
Your Evening has two steps in the following order.
7.6.1 Score Points. Score the victory points listed on
the rightmost empty space of your Roosts track.
7.6.2 Draw and Discard. Draw one card, plus one card
per uncovered draw bonus. Then, if you have
more than five cards in your hand, discard cards
of your choice until you have five.

7.7 TURMOIL
If you cannot fully take an action in the Decree (7.5.2)
for any reason, you fall into turmoil. You must take the
Turmoil action as follows in order.
7.7.1 Step 1: Humiliate. Lose one victory point per
bird card (including Loyal Viziers) on the Decree.
7.7.2 Step 2: Purge. Discard all of the cards on the De-
cree except your Loyal Viziers.
7.7.3 Step 3: Depose. Flip your current leader face
down and set it aside, choose a new leader from
those face up, and place on your faction board.
Tuck your Loyal Viziers into the Decree spaces
listed on your new leader.
I A New Clutch. If you must choose a new lead-
er but none are face up, flip them all face up.
7.7.4 Step 4: Rest. End Daylight and begin Evening.

7.8 LEADERS REFERENCE
The Eyrie have four leader cards, as follows.
7.8.1 Builder. Loyal Viziers begin on Recruit and Move.
Whenever you craft, you ignore your Disdain for
Trade special ability (7.2.3).
7.8.2 Charismatic. Loyal Viziers begin on Recruit and
Battle. Whenever you take a Recruit action, you
must place two warriors instead of one.

# Page 7
7.8.3 Commander. Loyal Viziers begin on Move and
Battle. In battle as attacker, you deal an extra hit.
7.8.4 Despot. Loyal Viziers begin on Move and Build.
Whenever you remove at least one enemy build-
ing or token in battle, you score one extra victory
point (two in total, 3.2.1).

8. Woodland Alliance
8.1 OVERVIEW
The Woodland Alliance works to gain the SYMPATHY of
the various creatures of the Woodland who are dissatis-
fied with their present condition. Each time the Alliance
places a sympathy token, they may score victory points.
The more sympathy on the map they have, the more
victory points they score. Gaining the sympathy of the
people requires supporters. These supporters can also
be put toward violent ends, inciting outright rebellion
across the forest. When a revolt erupts, the Alliance will
establish a BASE. Bases allow the Alliance to train offi-
cers, increasing their military flexibility.

8.2 FACTION RULES AND ABILITIES
8.2.1 Crafting. The Alliance crafts during Daylight by
activating sympathy tokens.
8.2.2 Guerrilla War. As defender in battle, the Alliance
will deal hits equal to the higher roll, and the at-
tacker will deal hits equal to the lower roll.
8.2.3 The Supporters Stack. To take various actions,
the Alliance spends supporters, which are cards
on their Supporters stack. Supporters can only be
spent for their suit and do not count against the
Alliance's hand size. Supporters are face down,
but the Alliance may inspect them at any time.
I Capacity. If the Alliance has no bases on the
map, the Supporters stack can only hold up
to five cards. If the Alliance would gain a sup-
porter but the stack cannot hold it, that card
is discarded. If any bases are on the map, the
Supporters stack can hold unlimited cards.
8.2.4 Removing Bases. Whenever a base is removed,
the Alliance must discard all supporters matching
the printed suit of the base (including birds) and re-
move half of their officers, rounded up. If the Alli-
ance has no more bases on the map and has more
than five supporters, they must discard down to
five supporters.
8.2.5 Sympathy Tokens. The Alliance has 10 sympa-
thy tokens.
I Placement Limits. A clearing can hold only
one sympathy token.
II Terms. A SYMPATHETIC CLEARING is one with a
sympathy token. An UNSYMPATHETIC CLEARING
is one without a sympathy token.
8.2.6 Outrage. Whenever another player removes a
sympathy token or moves any warriors into a sym-
pathetic clearing, they must add one card match-
ing the affected clearing from their hand to the
Supporters stack. If they have no matching cards
(including no birds), they must show their hand to
the Alliance, and then the Alliance draws a card
from the deck and adds it to the Supporters stack.

8.3 FACTION SETUP
8.3.1 Step 1: Gather Warriors. Form a supply of
10 warriors.
8.3.2 Step 2: Place Bases. Place 3 bases on the match-
ing spaces in your Bases box.
8.3.3 Step 3: Fill Sympathy Track. Place 10 sympathy
tokens on your Sympathy track.
8.3.4 Step 4: Gain Supporters. Draw 3 cards and place
them face down on your Supporters stack.

8.4 BIRDSONG
Your Birdsong has two steps in the following order.
8.4.1 Revolt. Any number of times, you may take the
Revolt action, as follows.
I Step 1: Choose Clearing. Choose a sympa-
thetic clearing that matches a base on your fac-
tion board.
II Step 2: Spend Supporters. Spend two support-
ers matching the suit of the chosen clearing.
III Step 3: Resolve Effect. Remove all enemy piec-
es from the chosen clearing. Then, place the
matching base there, and place warriors there
equal to the number of sympathetic clearings
matching the base's printed suit. Finally, place
one warrior in the Officers box. This warrior is
now an officer. (Remember to score one victory
point per token and building removed.)
8.4.2 Spread Sympathy. Any number of times, you may
take the Spread Sympathy action, as follows.
I Step 1: Choose Clearing. Choose an unsym-
pathetic clearing adjacent to a sympathetic
clearing. If there are no sympathetic clearings,
you may choose any clearing.
II Step 2: Spend Supporters. Spend supporters
matching the suit of the chosen clearing. The
number of supporters that must be spent is
listed above the sympathy token.
a Martial Law. You must spend another
matching supporter if the target clearing
has at least 3 warriors of another player, in-
cluding warriors they are treating as their
own for rule (Mercenaries, hirelings, etc.).
III Step 3: Place and Score. Place a sympathy token
in the chosen clearing. Score the victory points
on the space uncovered on your faction board.

8.5 DAYLIGHT
You may take the following actions in any order and
number.
8.5.1 Craft. You may activate sympathy tokens to craft
a card from your hand.
8.5.2 Mobilize. Add a card from your hand to the Sup-
porters stack.
7

# Page 8
8
8.5.3 Train. Spend a card whose suit matches the print-
ed suit of a base on the map to place a warrior in
the Officers box. This warrior is now an OFFICER.

8.6 EVENING
Your Evening has two steps in the following order.
8.6.1 Military Operations. You may take actions, as
follows, up to your number of officers, in any or-
der and number.
I Move. Take one move.
II Battle. Initiate a battle.
III Recruit. Place a warrior in any clearing with
a base.
IV Organize. Remove one Alliance warrior from
an unsympathetic clearing, place a sympathy
token there, and score the victory points listed
on the space uncovered on your faction board.
8.6.2 Draw and Discard. Draw one card, plus one card
per uncovered draw bonus. Then, if you have
more than five cards in your hand, discard cards
of your choice until you have five.

9. Vagabond
9.1 OVERVIEW
The Vagabond plays all sides of the conflict while going
on quests to increase his renown throughout the wood.
Each time the Vagabond improves his RELATIONSHIP
with another faction, or removes a warrior belonging to
a faction hostile toward him, he scores victory points.
He can also complete QUESTS to score victory points. To
move and act effectively the Vagabond must manage his
pack of ITEMS, expanding his selection by exploring the
forest ruins and providing aid to other factions.

9.2 FACTION RULES AND ABILITIES
9.2.1 Crafting. The Vagabond exhausts ☑ to craft. All
of his match the suit of his current clearing. If
the Vagabond crafts an item, he may immediately
take it, face up.
9.2.2 Lone Wanderer. The Vagabond pawn is not a war-
rior (so he cannot rule a clearing or stop another player
from ruling one). The Vagabond pawn cannot be
removed from the map.
I Full Removal. Whenever an enemy player uses
an effect that says it removes all enemy pieces
from a clearing (such as Alliance revolts, Favor of
the Mice cards, Conspiracy bombs) with the Vaga-
bond, the Vagabond damages three items.
9.2.3 Nimble. The Vagabond can move regardless of
who rules his origin or destination clearing (4.2.1).
9.2.4 Defenseless. In battle, the Vagabond is defense-
less (4.3.2.II) if he has no undamaged.
9.2.5 Items. The Vagabond's capabilities depend on the
items he acquires. Instead of a Crafted Items box,
he has a Satchel and various item tracks. Items on
the Vagabond's faction board can be face up or
9.2.6
face down. The Vagabond Exhausts face-up un-
damaged items, flipping them face down, to take
many actions.
I Item Tracks. When gained or flipped face up in
the Satchel,,, and are placed face up on
their matching tracks. When flipped face down,
,, or on tracks are placed face down
in the Satchel. Each track can only hold three
matching items.
II The Satchel. When gained, Z, 7,
and
are placed face up in the Vagabond's Satchel.
Maximum Rolled Hits. In battle, the Vagabond's
maximum rolled hits (4.3.2.I) equals his undam-
aged, face up or face down, in his Satchel.
9.2.7 Taking Hits. Whenever the Vagabond takes a hit
(4.3.3), he must damage one undamaged item,
moving it to his Damaged box. If no undamaged
items remain to damage, the Vagabond ignores
any remaining hits.
9.2.8 Dominance Cards and Coalitions. The Vagabond
cannot activate a dominance card for its normal
victory condition (3.3.1). Instead, in games with
four or more players, the Vagabond can activate a
dominance card to form a coalition with another
player, placing his score marker on that player's
faction board. (The Vagabond no longer scores points.)
That player must have fewer victory points than
each other player except the Vagabond forming
the coalition, and that player cannot be in a coa-
lition. If there is a tie for fewest victory points, he
chooses one tied player. If the coalitioned player
wins the game, the Vagabond also wins.
9.2.9 Relationships. Your faction board shows a Rela-
tionships chart, which has four spaces on the Al-
lied track and one Hostile box. It holds a relation-
ship marker for each non-Vagabond faction.
1 Improving Relationships. You can improve a
relationship with a non-Hostile faction by tak-
ing the Aid action.
a Cost. Aid a non-Hostile faction the number
of times listed between their current Allied
space and their next Allied space during the
same turn. (A given Aid action counts toward
only one improvement in relationship.)

# Page 9
II
III
a
b Effect. Advance that faction's relationship
marker one space right on the track. Score
the victory points listed in the new space.
Allied Status. If a relationship marker reaches
the final space on the Allied track, you are now
ALLIED with the faction shown by that relation-
ship marker. (Their warriors trust you!)
Aiding Ally. Each time you Aid an Allied
faction, score two victory points.
b Moving with Ally. Whenever you move to
an adjacent clearing, you may also force war-
riors of one Allied faction to move from your
origin clearing to your destination clearing
along with your Vagabond pawn.
c Attacking with Ally. At the start of battle as
the attacker, you may treat the warriors of
one Allied faction in the clearing of battle as
your own. The maximum hits you can roll
equals the number of their warriors there
plus your total undamaged ✔. You cannot
treat Allied warriors as your own when at-
tacking the same Allied faction.
d Taking Hits with Ally. In a battle where you
treat Allied warriors as your own, you can
take hits by removing them. However, if you
take more hits by removing Allied warriors
than by damaging items during the same
battle, that Allied faction becomes Hostile
(9.2.9.III) at the end of the battle. This rule
overrides the condition for becoming Hos-
tile in 9.2.9.III.
Hostile Status. If you remove a warrior of a
non-Hostile faction, move their relationship
marker to the Hostile box. This faction is now
HOSTILE. Then, if this happened in battle during
your turn, check for Infamy scoring (9.2.9.IIIa).
Infamy. Score one extra victory point for
each piece of a Hostile faction you remove
in battle during your turn, except the war-
rior that made the faction Hostile. (Add this
a to points scored for enemy buildings and tokens.)
b Moving into Hostile Clearings. You must
exhaust an extra to move into a clearing
with any warriors of any Hostile faction.
c Aiding Hostile Factions. You cannot move
a relationship marker out of the Hostile box
by using Aid, but you can still Aid a Hostile
faction to take crafted items.
d Coalition with Hostile Faction. You can
form a coalition (9.2.8) with a Hostile fac-
tion. If you do, move their relationship
marker to the Indifferent space.

9.3 FACTION SETUP
9.3.1 Step 1: Choose Character. Choose a character
card and place it in your Character Card slot.
9.3.2 Step 2: Place Pawn. Place your Vagabond pawn
in any forest.
9.3.3 Step 3: Get Quests. Shuffle your quest deck, draw
3 quest cards, and place them face up near you.
9.3.4 Step 4: Populate Ruins. Take the 4 ruins from the
map, and take the,
and items marked
with an "R." Place one beneath each ruin and then
shuffle each ruin stack. Then, return each stack to
an empty ruin slot on the map.
9.3.5 Step 5: Take Starting Items. Take the items
marked with an "S" listed on your character card.
Place any listed ☑ ☑, and items face up on the
matching tracks of your faction board. Place all
other listed items face up in your Satchel. Return
any remaining "S" items to the box.
9.3.6 Step 6: Set Relationships. Take a relationship
marker for each non-Vagabond faction and place
them all on the Indifferent space of your Relation-
ships chart.

9.4 BIRDSONG
Your Birdsong has two steps in the following order.
9.4.1 Refresh. Flip two exhausted items face up for each
☑ face up on the Refresh track at the start of your
Birdsong. Then flip up three more exhausted items.
9.4.2 Slip. You may move into an adjacent clearing or
forest without exhausting any ☑, even for moving
into a Hostile clearing (9.2.9.IIIb). This move ig-
nores all effects that prevent movement out of a
clearing (such as the Corvids' snare).

9.5 DAYLIGHT
You can exhaust items to take the following actions, in
any order and number. If you exhaust a, or on
a track, move it to the Satchel.
9.5.1 Move. Exhaust one ☑ to move, plus one if the
destination clearing has any Hostile warriors. You
cannot move into a forest. If in a forest, you may
only move into an adjacent clearing.
9.5.2 Battle. Exhaust one ☑ to initiate a battle. (Check
your relationship with the defender.)
9.5.3 Explore. Exhaust one to take one item under
a ruin in your clearing, reveal it, and place it face
up in your Satchel or on its matching track. If you
take an item, score one victory point. If you re-
move the last item from a ruin, remove the ruin.
9.5.4 Aid. Exhaust any one item, and give one of your
cards matching your clearing to any player with
faction pieces there (even Hostile). Then, you may
take one item, if any, from that player's Crafted
Items box, and place it face up in your Satchel or
on its matching track. (Check your relationship with
that player's faction.)
9.5.5 Quest. Choose a quest whose suit matches your
clearing, and exhaust the two items listed on the
quest to complete it. Place the quest in your play
area, and then draw a new quest and place it near
the map. You may score one victory point per quest
of matching suit you have completed, including
this one, or draw two cards from the deck.
9

# Page 10
10
9.5.6 Strike. Exhaust one to remove an enemy war-
rior from your clearing. If that enemy has no war-
riors there, you may instead remove one of their
other faction pieces there. (Check your relationship
with that player's faction.)
9.5.7 Repair. Exhaust one to move one damaged
item to the Satchel, keeping the item on its cur-
rent side. (Face-up, and immediately move
to their tracks.)
9.5.8 Craft. Play a card from your hand, and exhaust the
☑ of listed suit to craft it. All of your match the
suit of your clearing. If a card requires multiple of
one suit to craft, you must exhaust the listed num-
ber of. If you craft an item, you may place it face
up in your Satchel or on the matching track.
9.5.9 Special Action. Exhaust one to take the action
listed on your character card.

9.6 EVENING
Your Evening has four steps, as follows.
9.6.1 Rest. If you are in a forest, move all items in your
Damaged box to your Satchel or their matching
track, and flip them face up.
9.6.2 Draw Cards. Draw one card, plus one card per
face up on the matching track.
9.6.3 Discard Cards. If you have more than five cards
in your hand, discard cards of your choice until
you have five.
9.6.4 Check Item Capacity. If you have more items
total in your Satchel and Damaged box than
your item limit-six plus two per face up on
the matching track-remove items from your
Satchel and Damaged box until you have items
equal to your item limit, and remove them from
the game permanently.

9.7 PLAYING WITH TWO VAGABONDS
If you have The Riverfolk Expansion, you can play a game
with two Vagabonds by following these rules.
9.7.1 Setup. Use both sets of "R" items and place two
random "R" items in each ruin slot. If you are us-
ing the Standard Setup (5.1), randomly determine
which Vagabond sets up first.
9.7.2 Share Quests. Either Vagabond may complete
any of the three face-up quests. Do not add extra
quest cards during setup.
9.7.3 Taking Items from Ruins. When a Vagabond ex-
plores a ruin with two items, or the Hundreds raze
a ruin (14.4.1) with two items, that player may
look at those items and take one of their choice.
(By taking two Explore actions, the Vagabond could
take both items from one ruin.) A player cannot take
an "R" item if they have the same type of "R" item
on their faction board. (If the Vagabond explores but
does not take an item, he does not score a victory point,
but the is still exhausted.)
The next two sections refer to factions
in The Riverfolk Expansion.

10. Lizard Cult
10.1 OVERVIEW
Catering to the discarded creatures of the Woodland,
the Lizard Cult seeks to overwhelm its foes through
sheer force of will. Wherever the Cult rules clearings, it
can build GARDENS, using word of mouth and beak to
spread its gospel to the animals living there. The firmer
its hold over the hearts of its followers, the more victory
points the Cult can score by completing the proper RIT-
UALS. While other factions spend cards to achieve their
aims, the Cult acts chiefly by revealing cards and grad-
ually gathering a set of ideal followers. These revealed
cards are returned to the Cult's hand in Evening, unless
discarded to score victory points. However, this gentler
approach makes movement and battle difficult-the
Cult can only take these actions with its radicalized AC-
OLYTES, gained as the Cult's warriors are slaughtered
while defending in battle.

10.2 FACTION RULES AND ABILITIES
10.2.1 Crafting. The Cult crafts during Evening by ac-
tivating gardens whose printed suit matches the
Outcast suit (10.4.1). (Generally this matches the
clearing, except with the Lost City landmark.)
10.2.2 Hatred of Birds. Bird cards are not wild for
Cult rituals.
10.2.3 Revenge. Whenever a Cult warrior is removed
while defending in battle, it is placed in the Aco-
lytes box instead of the Cult's supply.
10.2.4 Pilgrims. The Cult rules any clearings where they
have any gardens. This overrides the Eyrie's Lords
of the Forest (7.2.2).
10.2.5 Fear of the Faithful. Whenever a garden is re-
moved, the Cult must discard a random card.
10.2.6 The Lost Souls Pile. Whenever any card is spent
or discarded (even a dominance card), place it in
the Lost Souls pile instead of the discard pile.
The Lost Souls pile can be inspected by any play-
er at any time.

10.3 FACTION SETUP
10.3.1 Step 1: Gather Warriors. Form a supply of
25 warriors.
10.3.2 Step 2: Place Warriors. Place 4 warriors and 1 gar-
den of matching printed suit in a corner clearing
that is not the starting corner clearing of anoth-
er player and, if possible, is diagonally opposite
from a starting corner clearing. This is your start-
ing clearing. Then place 1 warrior in each adjacent
clearing. (This is updated from earlier printings for
flexibility.)
10.3.3 Step 3: Choose Outcast. Place the outcast marker
on any suit space in the Outcast box. The suit of
this space is called the OUTCAST.

# Page 11
10.3.4 Step 4: Fill Gardens Tracks. Place your 14 re-
maining gardens on the matching spaces of your
Gardens tracks from right to left.

10.4 BIRDSONG
Your Birdsong has three steps in the following order.
10.4.1 Adjust Outcast. Look at the cards in the Lost
Souls pile, ignoring birds. The suit with the most
cards becomes the new Outcast-move the out-
cast marker, showing its Outcast side, to that suit.
If that suit was already the Outcast, flip the mark-
er to Hated. If no one suit had the most cards,
the marker stays on its current suit and, if it is not
Hated, flips to its Hated side.
10.4.2 Discard Lost Souls. Discard all of the cards in
the Lost Souls pile to the discard pile. (Dominance
cards become available to take.)
10.4.3 Perform Conspiracies. You can spend acolytes,
returning them to your supply, to perform con-
spiracies in clearings matching the Outcast, in
any order and number, as follows. If the Outcast
is Hated, the conspiracy costs one fewer acolyte.
I Crusade. Spend two acolytes to initiate a
battle in an Outcast clearing or to move (at
least one warrior) from an Outcast clearing and
then, if you wish, initiate a battle in the desti-
nation clearing.
II Convert. Spend two acolytes to replace an en-
emy warrior from an Outcast clearing with a
Cult warrior. (To replace a piece, you must be able
to remove the old piece and place the new piece.)
III Sanctify. Spend three acolytes to replace an
enemy building from an Outcast clearing with
a garden of the Outcast suit.

10.5 DAYLIGHT
You may reveal any number of cards and perform one
ritual per card revealed, in any order and number, as
follows. (Reveal cards from your hand into your play area.
They cannot be used for any other purposes during Daylight.)
10.5.1 Build. In a clearing you rule matching the re-
vealed card, place a matching garden.
10.5.2 Recruit. In a clearing matching the revealed card,
place a warrior.
10.5.3 Score. Spend the same card you reveal (placing in
Lost Souls) to score the victory points listed above
the rightmost empty Gardens space of the suit
matching the revealed card. You may perform this
only once per turn per suit.
10.5.4 Sacrifice. Place a warrior in the Acolytes box. To
perform this ritual, you must reveal a bird card.

10.6 EVENING
Your Evening has three steps in the following order.
10.6.1 Return Revealed Cards. Return all cards you re-
vealed this turn to your hand.
10.6.2 Craft. You may craft by activating gardens whose
printed suit matches the Outcast suit.
10.6.3 Draw and Discard. Draw one card, plus one card
per uncovered draw bonus. Then, if you have
more than five cards in your hand, discard cards
of your choice until you have five.

11. Riverfolk Company
11.1 OVERVIEW
When news arrived that the Woodland on the shore of
the great lake was descending into all-out war, the Riv-
erfolk Company quickly dispatched its officers to set
up shop. As other factions purchase their services, the
Riverfolk can further entrench their commercial inter-
ests by establishing Trade Posts along the river, scor-
ing victory points. So too can they score points by raw
accumulation of FUNDS, but a big treasury makes for an
easy target, so the Riverfolk must take care in expand-
ing their operations across the dangerous forest.

11.2 FACTION RULES AND ABILITIES
11.2.1 Crafting. The Riverfolk craft during Daylight by
committing funds to empty spaces on the Trade
Posts tracks. (They have no crafting pieces.)
11.2.2 Swimmers. The Riverfolk treat rivers as paths and
may move along rivers regardless of who rules
their origin or destination clearing. (They can still
move using paths.)
11.2.3 Public Hand. The Riverfolk place their hand face
up above their faction board. If another player
would take a random card from the Riverfolk's
hand, the cards are flipped face down, shuffled,
drawn from, and then flipped face up.
11.2.4 Funds. To take many actions, the Riverfolk com-
mit and spend FUNDS: warriors in their Funds box.
11.2.5 Trade Posts. The Riverfolk score victory points
when they place trade posts.
I Trade Disruption. Whenever a trade post is
removed, the Riverfolk remove half of their
funds, rounded up, and remove the trade post
from the game permanently.
11.2.6 Buying Services. At the start of another player's
Birdsong, that player may buy Riverfolk services.
I Cost. The buyer must place warriors from
their supply into the Riverfolk's Payments box
equal in number to the cost of that service list-
ed on the Riverfolk's Services track.
II Number of Services. Each turn, a player may
buy one service plus one per clearing with a
trade post and their faction pieces.
III Vagabond Funds. The Vagabond pays for ser-
vices by exhausting items-for each item he
exhausts to do so, the Riverfolk place one Riv-
erfolk warrior in the Payments box.
11.2.7 Riverfolk Services. The Riverfolk offer three ser-
vices, as follows.
I Hand Card. The buyer takes any card from the
Riverfolk's hand and adds it to their hand. (The
11

# Page 12
12
II
III
buyer may buy this service multiple times as long
as they have access to enough trade posts.)
Riverboats. The buyer treats rivers as paths
until the end of their turn.
Mercenaries. During Daylight and Evening
of this turn, except when battling the River-
folk, the buyer treats Riverfolk warriors as
their own for rule and for battle. (The buyer
cannot move them, count them toward domi-
nance, or remove them except by taking hits. They
are still Riverfolk faction pieces, so they cannot be
affected by abilities such as the Marquise's Field
Hospitals or used in actions such as the Duchy's
Sway Ministers.)
a Taking Hits. The buyer must split hits,
taking odd hits by removing owned
(not Riverfolk) warriors, if any, or owned
buildings or tokens only if they have no
warriors (including Riverfolk) in the clear-
ing of battle.
b Vagabond Mercenaries. The Vagabond
cannot buy Riverfolk mercenaries. (If a
buyer battles the Vagabond and a Riverfolk
mercenary warrior is removed, the buyer's fac-
tion becomes Hostile, not the Riverfolk.)

11.3 FACTION SETUP
11.3.1 Step 1: Gather Warriors. Form a supply of
15 warriors.
11.3.2 Step 2: Place Warriors. Place 4 warriors in any
clearings touching the river.
11.3.3 Step 3: Fill Trade Posts Tracks. Place 9 trade
posts on the matching spaces of your Trade
Posts tracks.
11.3.4 Step 4: Gain Starting Funds. Place 3 warriors
in your Payments box.
11.3.5 Step 5: Set Starting Prices. Place 1 service mark-
er on any space of each of your Services tracks.

11.4 BIRDSONG
Your Birdsong has three steps in the following order.
11.4.1 Protectionism. If the Payments box is empty,
place two warriors in it.
11.4.2 Score Dividends. If there are any trade posts on
the map, score one victory point per two funds.
(Do not score for warriors in Payments or Committed.)
11.4.3 Gather Funds. Move all warriors on your fac-
tion board to the Funds box.

11.5 DAYLIGHT
You can commit and spend funds to take actions, as
follows, in any order and number. When you commit a
fund, move the warrior to the Committed box. When you
spend a fund, return the warrior to its owner's supply.
11.5.1 Move. Commit one fund to take a move.
11.5.2 Battle. Commit one fund to initiate a battle.
11.5.3 Craft. Commit funds to craft a card from your
hand. Instead of moving these warriors to the
Committed box, you must place them on emp-
ty spaces of the Trade Posts tracks matching the
suits listed on the crafting cost.
I Export. You may ignore the listed benefit of
crafting a card, discarding it, to place one Riv-
erfolk warrior in the Payments box.
11.5.4 Draw. Commit one fund to draw a card.
11.5.5 Recruit. Spend one fund to place a warrior in any
clearing with a river.
11.5.6 Establish Trade Post with Garrison. Spend two
funds to place a trade post and a warrior.
I Choose Clearing. Choose any clearing with-
out a trade post that is ruled by any player.
II Spend Funds. Spend two funds of the player
who rules the chosen clearing.
III Place and Score. Place the matching trade
post and one warrior in the chosen clearing.
Score the victory points listed on the space un-
covered on your faction board.

11.6 EVENING
Your Evening has two steps in the following order.
11.6.1 Discard Cards. If you have more than five cards
in your hand, discard cards of your choice until
there are five.
11.6.2 Set Costs. You may move each service marker to
any space on its track, setting it to a new cost.

The next two sections refer to factions in
The Underworld Expansion.

12. Underground Duchy
12.1 OVERVIEW
The Underground Duchy wants to show the foreign
creatures of the Woodland that they would be better
off as subjects. As they set up frontier outposts to show
their power in the Woodland, the Duchy can sway MIN-
ISTERS to the cause, scoring victory points and diverting
more of the Duchy's resources. But be careful-a rever-
sal of fortune could spell public humiliation, leading
ministers to abandon the task.

12.2 FACTION RULES AND ABILITIES
12.2.1 Crafting. The Duchy crafts during Evening by ac-
tivating citadels and markets.
12.2.2 The Burrow. THE BURROW is an unsuited clear-
ing adjacent to each clearing with a tunnel token.
Non-Duchy pieces cannot be placed in or moved
into the Burrow. The Duchy always rules the Bur-
row (even with no pieces there).
12.2.3 The Price of Failure. Whenever any number of
Duchy buildings are removed, the Duchy returns
their swayed minister card of highest rank (lord,
then noble, then squire) to their Unswayed Minis-
ters pile, and removes its crown from the game

# Page 13
permanently, then discards a random card. If they
have multiple swayed ministers of highest rank,
the Duchy chooses which to return.
12.2.4 Tunnels. The Duchy has three tunnel tokens. If
the Duchy is prompted to place a tunnel but all
three tunnels are on the map, the Duchy may first
remove any tunnel from the map.

12.3 FACTION SETUP
12.3.1 Step 1: Gather Warriors and Tunnels. Form sup-
plies of 20 warriors and 3 tunnel tokens.
12.3.2 Step 2: Prepare the Burrow. Place the Burrow
board near the map.
12.3.3 Step 3: Surface. Place 2 warriors and 1 tunnel in
a corner clearing that is not the starting corner
clearing of another player and, if possible, is di-
agonally opposite from a starting corner clearing.
This is your starting clearing. Then place 2 war-
riors in each clearing adjacent to the chosen corner
clearing, except the Burrow. (This is updated from
earlier printings for flexibility.)
12.3.4 Step 4: Fill Buildings Tracks. Place 3 citadels and
3 markets on your matching Buildings spaces.
12.3.5 Step 5: Collect Ministers. Place 9 minister cards
face up on your Unswayed Ministers pile.
12.3.6 Step 6: Fill Crown Spaces. Place 9 crowns on the
spaces with victory points on your faction board.

12.4 BIRDSONG
Place one warrior, plus one warrior per warrior icon
showing, in the Burrow.

12.5 DAYLIGHT
Your Daylight has three steps in the following order.
12.5.1 Assembly. You may take up to two actions in any
order and number, as follows.
I Build. Reveal one card to place a citadel or
market in a matching clearing you rule.
II Recruit. Place one warrior in the Burrow.
III Move. Take a move.
IV Battle. Initiate a battle.
v Dig. Spend one card to place a tunnel token
in a matching clearing without a tunnel token.
Then, move up to four warriors from the Bur-
row to that clearing. (If all three tunnels are on
the map, you may remove a tunnel first.)
12.5.2 Parliament. You may take the action of each
swayed minister once in any order.
I Foremole. Reveal any card to place a citadel or
market in any clearing (matching or not) you rule.
II Captain. Initiate a battle.
III Marshal. Take a move.
IV Brigadier. Take up to two moves or initiate up
to two battles.
V Banker. Spend any number of cards (even
one) of the same suit to score victory points in
equal number.
VI Mayor. Take the action of any swayed noble
or squire.
VII Duchess of Mud. Score two victory points if
all three tunnels are on the map.
VIII Baron of Dirt. Score one victory point per
market on the map.
IX Earl of Stone. Score one victory point per cit-
adel on the map.
12.5.3 Sway. You may sway one minister, as follows.
I Choose Minister. Choose a minister card in
your Unswayed Ministers pile. You must have
a crown on your faction board matching the
rank (squire, noble, lord) of that minister.
II Reveal Cards. Reveal the number of cards
listed on the chosen minister. For each card
you wish to reveal, you must have at least one
Duchy piece in a clearing matching the suit of
that card. Each such clearing allows you to re-
veal one matching card.
III Sway Minister and Score. Take the chosen
minister card and place it above your faction
board. Take a crown of that minister's rank
from your faction board and place it on the
minister card. Score the victory points listed
on the space uncovered on your faction board.

12.6 EVENING
Your Evening has three steps in the following order.
12.6.1 Discard and Return Revealed Cards. Discard any
bird cards you revealed this turn, then return all
other cards you revealed this turn to your hand.
12.6.2 Craft. You may craft by activating citadels and
markets. (These are identical for crafting purposes.)
12.6.3 Draw and Discard. Draw one card, plus one card
per card draw icon showing. Then, if you have
more than five cards in your hand, discard cards
of your choice until you have five.
0
13

# Page 14
14
13. Corvid Conspiracy
13.1 OVERVIEW
The Corvid Conspiracy seeks to strong-arm the Wood-
land into submission by completing criminal PLOTS,
scoring victory points each time they flip one. The more
revealed plots on the map, the more they score. Mis-
direction is critical-if their plans are too obvious, the
Corvids risk exposure. To avoid this, they must recruit
carefully and look for any opportunities for subterfuge
and extortion.

13.2 FACTION RULES AND ABILITIES
13.2.1 Crafting. The Corvids craft during Birdsong by
activating plot tokens (whether face up or down).
13.2.2 Plot Tokens. The Corvids have eight plot tokens,
two of each type.
I Token Facing. While in the Corvids' supply,
plot tokens are face down (feather). While on
the map, a plot token can be face up (unique
icon) or face down. The Corvids can inspect
any facedown plot token at any time.
II Placement Limits. Each clearing can hold
only one plot token.
13.2.3 Nimble. The Corvids can move regardless of who
rules their origin or destination clearing.
13.2.4 Exposure. Anytime on their turn, but before draw-
ing any cards in their Evening, an enemy player
with faction pieces in a clearing with a facedown
plot token may show the Corvids a matching card
to guess the type of plot token in that clearing.
If incorrect, the Corvids say "no," and the enemy
player gives that card to the Corvids. If correct,
the enemy player removes the plot token (scoring a
victory point) and ignores its effect.
13.2.5 Embedded Agents. As defender in battle, if the
Corvids have a facedown plot token (even defense-
less) in the clearing of battle, they deal an extra hit.

13.3 FACTION SETUP
13.3.1 Step 1: Gather Warriors and Plots. Form sup-
plies of 15 warriors and 8 plot tokens face down.
13.3.2 Step 2: Scatter. Place 1 warrior in any clearing of
each suit (total of 3).

13.4 BIRDSONG
Your Birdsong has three steps in the following order.
13.4.1 Craft. You may activate plot tokens (whether face
up or down) to craft cards from your hand.
13.4.2 Flip Plots. Any number of times, flip a plot token
face up in a clearing with any Corvid warriors,
score one victory point per face-up plot token on
the map (including the newly flipped one), and then
resolve its flip effect if it is a bomb or extortion.
13.4.3 Recruit. Once per turn, you may spend any card
to place one warrior in each matching clearing. (If
you spend a bird, choose one suit to place warriors in.)
13.5 DAYLIGHT
You may take up to three actions, as follows, in any or-
der and number.
13.5.1 Move. Take a move.
13.5.2 Plot. Remove a Corvid warrior, plus another Cor-
vid warrior per plot you have placed this turn,
from a clearing with no plot tokens to place a face-
down plot token there.
13.5.3 Battle. Initiate a battle.
13.5.4 Trick. Swap two plot tokens on the map. Both
plot tokens must be face up or face down.

13.6 EVENING
Your Evening has two steps in the following order.
13.6.1 Exert. You may take one action listed in Daylight
if you choose to not draw cards during Evening.
13.6.2 Draw. Draw one card plus one card per face-up
extortion token on the map. Then, if you have
more than five cards, discard down to five cards.

13.7 PLOT TOKENS REFERENCE
13.7.1 Bomb. Whenever a bomb token is flipped, re-
move all enemy pieces in its clearing, then remove
the bomb token.
13.7.2 Snare. While a snare token is face up, enemy piec-
es cannot be placed in or moved from its clearing.
13.7.3 Extortion. Whenever an extortion token is flipped,
take a random card from each enemy player with
faction pieces in its clearing. While an extortion to-
ken is face up, you draw another card in Evening.
13.7.4 Raid. Whenever a raid token is removed (face up or
down), place one warrior in each clearing adjacent
to the clearing from which the raid was removed.
(Ignore this effect if the raid is removed by Exposure.).

The next two sections refer to factions in
The Marauder Expansion

14. Lord of the Hundreds
14.1 OVERVIEW
The Lord of the Hundreds suffers no fools and allows
no dissent. During their Evening, they score points
based on how well they Oppress their foes. The more
clearings they rule that have a Hundreds piece and no
enemy pieces-no warriors, no buildings, nothing-the
more points they score. To grow in power and attract
warriors, the Hundreds must gain items and add them
to their towering Hoard. Leading the Hundreds is the
WARLORD, a warrior-demagogue whose fickle MOOD
gives them an ability for the turn. Their warlord is ob-
sessed with hoarding, so as the Hundreds gain more
items, they will have fewer moods to choose from. De-
claring themselves as the true voice of the Woodland,
the Hundreds can incite mobs, which destroy enemy
buildings and tokens, and raid ruins for items.

# Page 15
14.2 FACTION RULES AND ABILITIES
14.2.1 Crafting. The Hundreds craft during Daylight by
activating strongholds.
14.2.2 The Warlord. The Hundreds have a piece called
the warlord. The warlord is a warrior that cannot
be removed outside of battle, moved outside of
the Hundreds' turn, or placed in ways other than
setup (14.3.2) and the Anoint action (14.4.3).
14.2.3 Contempt for Trade. Whenever the Hundreds
craft an item, they may take the item but score
none of the listed victory points, or may remove the
item permanently to score the listed victory points.
(They can still score extra crafting points from effects such
as Master Engravers and the Legendary Forge.)
14.2.4 The Hoard. Instead of a Crafted Items box, the
Hundreds have the Hoard box. This has two
tracks, Command and Prowess. The Command
track can hold
and. The Prowess track
can hold,,, and
I Gaining Items. When the Hundreds gain an
item, they put it in the leftmost empty Com-
mand or Prowess space based on the item type;
if there is no such empty space, they must per-
manently remove the gained item or any item
on that track, and they score one victory point.
II Command and Prowess. The number of items
on the Command and Prowess tracks deter-
mine their Command and Prowess, which af-
fect various parts of their rules. With no items,
they have 1 Command or Prowess; with one or
two items, they have 2; with three items, they
have 3; with four items, they have 4.
14.2.5 Looters. At the start of battle as the attacker, the
Hundreds may declare that they want to loot the
defender, so long as the defender has an item in
their Crafted Items box. (They cannot loot the Vag-
abond.) If they declare that they want to loot, the
Hundreds deal no rolled hits. (The defender deals
rolled hits, and the Hundreds can still deal extra hits,
such as from their Wrathful mood.) Then, at the end
of that battle, if the Hundreds rule the clearing
of battle, they take one item from the defender's
Crafted Items box.

14.3 FACTION SETUP
14.3.1 Step 1: Gather Pieces. Form supplies of 20 war-
riors, 1 warlord, and 6 strongholds.
14.3.2 Step 2: Garrison. Place your warlord, four war-
riors, and one stronghold in a corner clearing that
is not the starting corner clearing of another play-
er and, if possible, is diagonally opposite from a
starting corner clearing.
14.3.3 Step 3: Place Items. Place the four "R" items
randomly under the ruins, unless this has already
been done.
14.3.4 Step 4: Get Stubborn. Place your Stubborn
mood card on your Mood Card slot.
14.4 BIRDSONG
Your Birdsong has four steps in the following order.
14.4.1 Raze. In each clearing with a mob token, remove
all enemy buildings and tokens, take one item
from the ruin in the clearing, if any, and remove
the ruin if you took its last item. After resolving
all mobs, you must roll the mob die once and
place a mob token in a matching clearing that has
no mob token but is adjacent to a clearing with
a mob token. (If there are no such clearings, do not
place a mob.)
14.4.2 Recruit. Place warriors equal in number to your
Prowess into the clearing with your warlord. Then,
place warriors in each clearing with any strong-
holds, one warrior per stronghold there.
14.4.3 Anoint. If the warlord is not on the map, you
must replace any Hundreds warrior on the map
with the warlord. If you cannot, you must place
the warlord in any clearing.
14.4.4 Choose Mood. You must replace the mood card
in your Mood Card slot with a different mood
card that does not show an item that is in your
Hoard. If you are Lavish and cannot choose a new
mood card, you remain Lavish.

14.5 DAYLIGHT
Your Daylight has three steps in the following order.
14.5.1 Craft. You may activate strongholds to craft cards.
14.5.2 Command the Hundreds. You may take the fol-
lowing actions, in any order, a number of times up
to your Command.
I Move. Take a move.
II Battle. Initiate a battle.
III Build. Spend a card to place a stronghold in a
matching clearing that you rule.
14.5.3 Advance the Warlord. You may take this action
a number of times up to your Prowess. You may
move the warlord with any Hundreds warriors,
and then you may battle in the warlord's clearing.

14.6 EVENING
Your Evening has three steps in the following order.
14.6.1 Incite. Any number of times, you may spend a
card to place a mob token in a matching clearing
that has no mob token but does have a Hundreds
warrior (including your warlord).
14.6.2 Oppress. You score victory points based on the
number of clearings you rule that have a Hundreds
piece and no enemy pieces. For one or two clear-
ings, score one point; for three or four clearings,
score two points; for five clearings, score three
points; for six or more clearings, score four points.
14.6.3 Draw and Discard. Draw one card. Then, if you
have more than five cards in your hand, discard
cards of your choice until you have five.
15

# Page 16
16
14.7 MOODS
14.7.1 Bitter (). In battle in your warlord's clearing,
before the roll you may remove any number of
mob tokens from your warlord's clearing and any
clearings adjacent to it. Place warriors in your
warlord's clearing equal to the number of mob to-
kens you removed.
14.7.2 Grandiose (). This turn, perform your Advance
the Warlord step (14.5.3) and your Command the
Hundreds step (14.5.2) in reverse order. (Advance
the Warlord first, then Command the Hundreds.)
14.7.3 Jubilant (☑). Whenever you take the Incite ac-
tion in your warlord's clearing, after placing the
mob token for the action, you may-up to four
times-roll the mob die and place a mob token in
a matching clearing that has no mob token but is
adjacent to any clearing with a mob token.
14.7.4 Lavish (No Item). At the end of your Birdsong,
you may remove any number of items from your
Hoard permanently. For each item you remove,
place two warriors into your warlord's clearing.
When you are done, shift items in your Hoard to
fill its tracks from left to right.
14.7.5 Relentless (). Whenever you take the Advance
the Warlord action and both move and battle, you
may then either move your warlord with any Hun-
dreds warriors or battle in your warlord's clearing.
14.7.6 Rowdy). In Evening (14.6.3), draw one more
card. If your warlord's clearing has three or more
enemy pieces (even a combination of pieces from
different enemies), draw two more cards instead.
14.7.7 Stubborn (). In battle in your warlord's clear-
ing, you ignore the first hit you take. (This does not
combine with other abilities that let you ignore the first
hit you take.)
14.7.8 Wrathful (7). As attacker in battle in your war-
lord's clearing, you deal an extra hit.

15. Keepers in Iron
15.1 OVERVIEW
The Keepers in Iron are an order of devout knights,
once exiled from the Woodland, who have returned
to recover RELICS lost in past conflicts. Whether these
relics belong to the Keepers or the Woodland, though,
is another question. To accomplish their mission, they
will need to delve relics out of the forests, move them to
a WAYSTATION of the same type, and then recover them.
When they recover a relic, they score points equal to
the relic's value of one to three, and they also score two
points each time they complete a set of the three rel-
ic types-figures, tablets, and jewelry. Over time, the
Keepers will gather a Retinue of Woodland creatures,
letting them take more actions. However, each time
they delve a relic or recover one, they might lose the
Retinue card they used to act, so they will need to plan
ahead and take prudent risks in order to succeed.
15.2 FACTION RULES AND ABILITIES
15.2.1 Relics. You seek out twelve relic tokens of three
types-figures, tablets, and jewelry. Each relic
type has four tokens in total. The relic front shows
only its type, and the relic back shows a value of
1, 2, 3, or 3.
15.2.2 Waystations. You have three waystations. Each
waystation shows one relic type on its front and
another relic type on its back.
15.2.3 Crafting. The Keepers craft during Daylight by
activating waystations (of any type).
15.2.4 Devout Knights. In battle, if the clearing of bat-
tle has at least one relic and at least one Keeper
warrior, the Keepers ignore the first hit they take.
(If ambushed, ignore one hit from the ambush, but do
not ignore further hits.) When moving, the Keepers
may move one relic with each Keeper warrior that
they move.
15.2.5 Prized Trophies. Whenever an enemy removes a
relic, they place it in any forest face up and score
an extra victory point (for a total of two).

15.3 FACTION SETUP
15.3.1 Step 1: Place Starting Relics. Collect all twelve
relic tokens and shuffle them face down (without
the value showing). Place one randomly in each
forest. (We recommend that you just slide the relics
around face down, then place relics as fast as possible as
a group. Otherwise, you can use this more random but
fiddly method: the Keepers stack the randomized relics,
then any other player cuts the stack, picks it up, and
drops relics one by one from the bottom onto the forests.)
15.3.2 Step 2: Gather Warriors. Form a supply of 15
warriors.
15.3.3 Step 3: Place Warriors. Place four warriors in
a corner clearing that is not the starting corner
clearing of another player and, if possible, is di-
agonally opposite from a starting corner clearing.
Then, place four warriors in a clearing on the map
edge that is adjacent to the chosen clearing.
15.3.4 Step 4: Place Remaining Relics. Place all remain-
ing relics randomly, as evenly as possible, among
forests not adjacent to clearings with your warriors.
15.3.5 Step 5: Tuck Faithful Retainers. Tuck one Faith-
ful Retainer card into each Retinue slot of your
faction board.
15.3.6 Step 6: Collect Waystations. Place your three
waystation buildings on the matching Waysta-
tions spaces of your faction board.

15.4 BIRDSONG
Your Birdsong has three steps in the following order.
15.4.1 Encamp. Once per clearing, you may replace a
Keeper warrior with a waystation. If you have no
warriors or waystations on the map, instead place
one waystation and one warrior in any clearing on
the map edge. In either case, you may place the
waystation face up or face down.

# Page 17
15.4.2 Decamp. Once per clearing, you may replace a
waystation with a Keeper warrior.
15.4.3 Recruit. Any number of times, you may spend a
card to place two warriors at a matching waystation.

15.5 DAYLIGHT
Your Daylight has two steps in the following order.
15.5.1 Craft. You may activate waystations (of any type)
to craft cards.
15.5.2 Act with Retinue. Starting with the leftmost col-
umn of your Retinue and moving to the right, you
may take the column's action, as follows, for each
card in the column in any order.
I Move. Take a move from a clearing whose suit
matches the card suit.
II Battle then Delve. Choose a clearing whose
suit matches the card suit. You must initiate
a battle there if any enemy pieces are there.
Then, if you rule the clearing and it has at least
one Keeper warrior, you may delve there as fol-
lows (even if there was no enemy to battle).
a Step 1: Move and Flip Relic. Move any relic
from an adjacent forest into that clearing. Flip
that relic so its value is showing if it is not.
b Step 2: Check for Discard. Count the num-
ber of clearings you rule adjacent to the for-
est from which you delved the relic. If you
rule fewer of these clearings than the relic's
value, then you must discard the Retinue
card used to take this action.
III Move or Recover. Choose a clearing whose
suit matches the card suit. Take a move from it,
or recover relics from it as follows.
a Step 1: Take Relic. Take a relic there of the
same type as a waystation there. Place it in
your leftmost empty Relics space of that
relic type.
b Step 2: Score Points. Score victory points
equal to the relic's value, and score two vic-
tory points if you filled a Relics column.
C Step 3: Check for Discard. Count the num-
ber of clearings you rule whose suit matches
the clearing from which you are recovering
the relic. If you rule fewer of these clearings
than the relic's value, then you must end this
Recover action and discard the Retinue card
used to take this action. Otherwise, you may
return to the Take Relic step or end this Re-
cover action.

15.6 EVENING
Your Evening has three steps in the following order.
15.6.1 Live Off the Land. You must remove one Keeper
warrior from each clearing that has four or more
Keeper warriors.
15.6.2 Gather Retinue. You may add any number of
cards from your hand to any Retinue slots, or
you may shift one card in your Retinue to a dif-
ferent slot. Your Retinue cannot hold more than
ten cards.
15.6.3 Draw and Discard. Draw one card, plus one card
per uncovered draw bonus (equal to waystations on the
map). Then, if you have more than five cards in your
hand, discard cards of your choice until you have five.

APPENDICES
A. Advanced Setup
There are hundreds of ways to play Root. The icons next
to the setup steps note which Root products (Appendix
B) include options for that step.

A.1 STEP 1: CHOOSE And Set UP MAP
As a group, choose a map. If you choose a variant map
(Appendix C), follow its Setup Modification section,
then collect the 12 suit markers, flip them face down,
and shuffle them, then place one on each clearing, cov-
ering the printed suit symbols if any. Set up the ruins
(5.1.4), item supply (5.1.5), and dice (5.1.6) as normal.

A.2 STEP 2: CHOOSE DECK
As a group, you may choose to replace the entire stan-
dard deck with the Exiles and Partisans deck.

A.3 STEP 3: SET UP BOTSU
As a group, you may choose to play with bots, as de-
scribed in the Law of Rootbotics.

A.4 STEP 4: SEAT PLAYERS
Determine the seating order and the first player randomly.

A.5 STEP 5: SET UP LANDMARKS
As a group, you may choose to use landmarks (Appen-
dix F). If so, you may ignore or override the placement
of the Tower and Ferry pieces described in Variant Maps
(Appendix C).
A.5.1 Step 1: Choose. As a group, choose if you're play-
ing with one or two landmarks, and remove any
landmark cards you do not want to play with.
A.5.2 Step 2: Deal and Collect. Shuffle the chosen land-
mark cards, deal out the chosen number, and col-
lect the landmark piece shown on each dealt card.
17

# Page 18
18
A.5.3 Step 3: Set Up. The last player in turn order sets
up one drawn landmark as described on its card.
If you chose to play with two landmarks, the sec-
ond-to-last player in turn order sets up the other
drawn landmark as described on its card.

A.6 STEP 6: SET UP HIRELINGS
As a group, you may choose to use exactly three hire-
lings (Appendix E), as follows.
A.6.1 Step 1: Collect Pieces. Shuffle all the hirelings
cards. Deal out three hireling cards and return
the rest to the box. Collect the pieces for the dealt
hireling cards into a supply.
A.6.2 Step 2: Demote. If playing with three players,
flip over one random hireling to its Demoted side
(marked with a "D"). If playing with four players,
flip over two random hirelings to their Demoted
side. If playing with five or more players, flip over
all three hirelings to their Demoted side.
A.6.3 Step 3: Set Up Hirelings. Starting with the last
player in turn order and going counterclockwise,
players set up one dealt hireling each as described
on its hireling card. (Some have no setup instructions.)
A.6.4 Step 4: Place Hireling Markers. Place the three
hireling markers-marked "4," "8," and "12"-on
the "4," "8," and "12" spaces of the score track on
the map.
A.6.5 Step 5: Return Corresponding Factions. A fac-
tion cannot be played if its corresponding hire-
ling is in play (shown by color and icon). Return the
corresponding faction boards, pieces, and setup
cards to the box.

A.7 STEP 7: DRAW FIVE CARDS
If you are playing with two players, remove all four
dominance cards from the deck. Shuffle the deck. Each
player draws five cards. (Not three, as in Standard Setup!
You will choose three cards to keep in step 10.)

A.8 STEP 8: SET UP FACTIONS
As a group, you may choose and set up factions as de-
scribed in the Standard Setup (5.1) or you may use the
faction setup cards included in the Marauder Expan-
sion, as described below.
A.8.1 Step 1: Deal Setup Cards. Shuffle all of the mili-
tant faction setup cards (red name with sword) and
deal out one card to a pool in the center of the
table. Shuffle the remaining militant faction set-
up cards together with all of the insurgent faction
setup cards (grey name with no sword), and deal out
one faction setup card per player. (There will be one
more faction setup card than the number of players.)
I Two Players. If you're playing with two players,
remove all of the insurgent faction setup cards
before dealing out any. (You may keep them if you're
playing with hirelings and feeling adventurous.)
II Lock Last Insurgent. If the last faction setup
card dealt out is an insurgent, turn it sideways to
show that it is locked. It cannot be chosen unless
at least one militant faction has been chosen.
III Vagabond. Whenever a Vagabond faction set-
up card is dealt out, also deal out one random
character card next to it face up. If a player
chooses this Vagabond as their faction, they
must use this character card.
A.8.2 Step 2: Choose Factions. Starting with the last
player in turn order and going counterclockwise,
each player chooses one faction setup card from
the pool and sets up the faction immediately as it
describes (before another player chooses).
I Homelands. When setting up, players might
choose one or more homeland clearings. Play-
ers cannot choose homelands that enemies
have chosen as their homelands or where they
cannot place all the pieces listed in setup.
II Enemy Homeland Adjacency. Some factions
require you to choose a homeland that is not
adjacent to enemy homelands; if you cannot
do this, choose a homeland adjacent to an ene-
my homeland. If you must choose a homeland
that has two or more clearings between it and
enemy homelands but you cannot, choose a
homeland that is not adjacent to enemy home-
lands. (Basically, try to set up as far away as able.)
III Multiple Homeland Adjacency. If your faction
has multiple homelands and you cannot ful-
fill all of their enemy adjacency requirements
(A.8.2.II), choose and set them up one at a time,
fulfilling each requirement as best you can.

A.9 STEP 9: PLACE SCORE MARKERS
Each player places their faction's score marker on the
"0" space on the score track.

A.10 STEP 10: CHOOSE STARTING HANDS
Each player chooses three cards in their hand to keep
and puts the other two cards face down on the shared
deck. When finished, shuffle the shared deck.

B. Components
B.1 ROOT
B.1.1 Booklets. Walkthrough, Learning to Play, and
this Law.
B.1.2 Cardboard Pieces. 28 Buildings (7 Roosts, 6 Saw-
mills, 6 Recruiters, 6 Workshops, 3 Bases), 19 Tokens
(10 Sympathy, 8 Wood, 1 Keep), 12 Clearing Mark-
ers (4 Rabbit, 4 Fox, 4 Mouse), 4 Ruins, 4 Victory
Point Markers, 3 Relationship Markers, 23 Items
(4 Boots, 4 Swords, 4 Bags, 3 Hammers, 3 Tea, 2 Coins,
2 Crossbows, 1 Torch).
B.1.3 Wooden Pieces. 55 Warriors (25 Marquise, 20 Ey-
rie, 10 Alliance), 1 Vagabond Pawn.
B.1.4 Cards. 54 Cards for Shared Deck, 16 Faction
Overviews, 4 Eyrie Leaders, 2 Loyal Viziers, 3 Vag-
abond Characters, 15 Quests, 4 Walkthroughs.
B.1.5 Other. Board (Fall and Winter Maps), 2 Dice, 4 Fac-
tion Boards (Marquise, Eyrie, Alliance, Vagabond).

# Page 19
B.2 RIVERFOLK EXPANSION
B.2.1 Booklets. Learning to Play.
B.2.2 Cardboard Pieces. 15 Buildings (15 Gardens),
9 Tokens (9 Trade Posts), 3 Victory Point Mark-
ers, 1 Outcast Marker, 9 Relationship Markers,
11 Items (3 Boots, 3 Swords, 1 Bag, 1 Hammer,
1 Torch, 1 Coins, 1 Crossbow), and 17 spare pieces
with letter backs for future scenarios.
B.2.3 Wooden Pieces. 40 Warriors (25 Lizard, 15 River-
folk), 1 Vagabond Pawn.
B.2.4 Cards. 4 Spies, 2 Faction Overviews, 3 Vaga-
bond Characters.
B.2.5 Other. 4 Faction Boards (Second Vagabond, Me-
chanical Marquise, Riverfolk Company, Lizard Cult),
3 Service Markers, 1 Card Stand.

B.3 UNDERWORLD EXPANSION
B.3.1 Booklets. Learning to Play and this Law.
B.3.2 Cardboard Pieces. 6 Buildings (3 Markets, 3 Cit-
adels), 19 Tokens (8 Plots, 8 Spare Plots, 3 Tunnels),
the Burrow, 4 Relationship Markers, 2 Victory
Point Markers, 6 Closed Path Markers.
B.3.3 Wooden Pieces. 35 Warriors (20 Duchy, 15 Corvid),
1 Ferry, 1 Tower, 9 Crowns.
B.3.4 Cards. 9 Ministers, 2 Overviews.
B.3.5 Other. Board (Lake and Mountain Maps), 2 Dice,
2 Faction Boards (Duchy, Corvid).

B.4 MARAUDER EXPANSION
B.4.1 Booklets. Learning to Play and this Law.
B.4.2 Cardboard Pieces. 9 Buildings (3 Waystations,
6 Strongholds), 17 Tokens (12 Relics, 5 Mobs), 4 Rela-
tionship Markers, 2 Victory Point Markers, 12 Con-
trol Markers, 3 Club Items, 3 Hireling Markers, 11
Extra Markers (9 Victory Points, 2 Relationships).
B.4.3 Wooden Pieces. 56 Warriors (20 Hundreds,
15 Keepers, 12 Patrol, 5 Dynasty, 4 Uprising), 1 Hun-
dreds Warlord, 1 Exile Pawn.
B.4.4 Cards. 8 Moods, 3 Faithful Retainers, 10 Faction
Setup, 4 Hirelings, 2 Overviews.
B.4.5 Other. 2 Faction Boards (Hundreds, Keepers),
3 Dice (Mob, Uprising, Control).

B.5 CLOCKWORK EXPANSION
B.5.1 Booklets. Law of Rootbotics.
B.5.2 Cardboard Pieces. 12 Priority Markers.
B.5.3 Cards. 12 Difficulties, 16 Traits, 3 Vagabots.
B.5.4 Other. 4 Faction Boards.

B.6 CLOCKWORK EXPANSION 2
B.6.1 Booklets. Law of Rootbotics.
B.6.2 Cardboard Pieces. 12 Priority Markers.
B.6.3 Cards. 12 Difficulties, 20 Traits, 3 Vagabots, 1 In-
teraction, 11 Services.
B.6.4 Other. 4 Faction Boards.
B.7 EXILES and PartISANS DECK
B.7.1 Cards. 54 Cards for Shared Deck.

B.8 LANDMARKS PACK
B.8.1 Cards. 1 Setup/Rules, 6 Landmarks.
B.8.2 Wooden Pieces. 4 Landmarks.

B.9 VAGABOND PACK
B.9.1 Cardboard Pieces. 3 Items (1 Coins, 1 Hammer,
1 Boot)
B.9.2 Wooden Pieces. 7 Vagabond Pawns.
B.9.3 Cards. 3 Vagabond Characters.

B.10 HIRELING PACKS
B.10.1 Booklets. Learning to Play Hirelings.
B.10.2 Cardboard Pieces. 3 Hireling Markers, 12 Con-
trol Markers. 3 Foothold Tokens in Underworld
Pack. 6 Vault Buildings in Marauder Pack.
B.10.3 Wooden Pieces. 1 Flotilla Pawn, 4 Prophet War-
riors, 4 Bandit Warriors in Riverfolk Pack. 8 Ex-
pedition Warriors, 6 Spy Warriors, and 1 Protec-
tor Pawn in Underworld Pack. 6 Bearer Warriors,
6 Keeper Warriors, and 5 Band Warriors in Ma-
rauder Pack.
B.10.4 Cards. 3 Hirelings.
B.10.5 Other. 1 Control Die.

C. Variant Maps
C.1 WINTER MAP
C.1.1 Raging River. The river divides forests (as printed
paths do).

C.2 LAKE MAP
C.2.1 Setup Modifications. Place the Ferry piece in the
corner clearing that is also a coastal clearing.
C.2.2 The Lake. The Lake is in the center of the map.
The lake is treated as rivers linking each coastal
clearing to each other coastal clearing. The lake
divides forests.
C.2.3 Coastal Clearings. Clearings touching the lake
(not separated by a forest) are cOASTAL CLEARINGS.
C.2.4 Coastal Forests. Forests touching the lake are
COASTAL FORESTS. Each coastal forest is adjacent to
its two neighboring coastal forests (separated by one
coastal clearing).
C.2.5 The Ferry. Once per turn, pieces moving from the
coastal clearing with the Ferry can move on the
lake to any other coastal clearing, ignoring ad-
jacency, and moving the Ferry along with them.
(You still must rule the origin or destination clearing.)
After this, the moving player draws one card. The
Ferry cannot be battled or removed.
19

# Page 20
20
C.3 MOUNTAIN MAP
C.3.1 Setup Modifications. Place the 6 closed path
markers to cover the 6 paths of darker color with
excavated ground. Place the Tower piece in the
central clearing showing two towers.
C.3.2 Closed Paths. A path covered with a closed path
marker is a closed path. Clearings linked by a
closed path are not adjacent, and pieces (such
as Highway Bandits) cannot be placed on closed
paths. Closed paths enclose and divide forests as
if they were paths (so the Vagabond can slip across it).
C.3.3 Removing Closed Paths. Once per turn in their
Daylight, a player can spend a card to remove a
closed path marker from the game permanently
and score one victory point. To remove it, that
player must have any faction pieces in either clear-
ing linked by the closed path marker.
C.3.4 The Pass and Tower. The clearing marked with the
Tower piece is the Pass. At the end of a player's
Evening, if that player rules the Pass, that player
scores one victory point.
C.3.5 Forests. All areas on the mountain map enclosed
by paths and clearings are forests (2.2), regardless
of the presence or placement of trees within.

D. Vagabonds
D.1 THIEF
D.1.1 Starting Items. Start with
D.1.2 Special Action: Steal. Exhaust one to take a
random card from any player in your clearing.

D.2 TINKER
D.2.1 Starting Items. Start with
D.2.2 Special Action: Day Labor. Exhaust one to
take a card from the discard pile whose suit match-
es your clearing. (You can always take a bird card.)

D.3 RANGER
D.3.1 Starting Items. Start with
D.3.2 Special Action: Hideout. Exhaust one to re-
pair three items. Then, immediately end Daylight
and begin Evening.

D.4 VAGRANT
D.4.1 Starting Items. Start with
D.4.2 Special Action: Instigate. Exhaust a to initiate
a battle in your clearing. You choose the attacker
and defender, you choose the order in which they
each remove their own buildings and tokens, and
you remove pieces for each. (Score a victory point
per building or token of either player removed, and per
Hostile piece of either player removed.)

D.5 ARBITER
D.5.1 Starting Items. Start with Z,
D.5.2 Special Action: Protector. Before dice are rolled
in a battle, the defender may enlist the Arbiter in
the clearing of battle. The Arbiter scores one vic-
tory point and adds all of his undamaged ☑ to the
maximum rolled hits of the defender. The Arbiter
cannot enlist himself or be enlisted against himself.

D.6 SCOUNDREL
D.6.1 Starting Items. Start with
D.6.2 Special Action: Scorched Earth. Exhaust a ☑
and place it in your clearing. Remove all enemy
pieces from that clearing. Pieces cannot be placed
in or moved into the clearing with the. (You re-
main in this clearing. Once you move out, you cannot
move back in. The cannot be removed with a "Favor
of the..." card because it is not an enemy piece.)

D.7 ADVENTURER
D.7.1 Starting Items. Start with
D.7.2 Special Action: Improvise. Once per turn while
taking the Quest action, you may treat one unex-
hausted item as any other item. When you exhaust
it to complete the quest, also damage that item.

D.8 RONIN
D.8.1 Starting Items. Start with
D.8.2 Special Action: Swift Strike. You may exhaust a
☑ to deal an extra hit in battle (after rolling).

D.9 HARRIER
D.9.1 Starting Items. Start with
D.9.2 Special Action: Glide. Exhaust a
to move
only your Vagabond pawn (not other pieces) to any
clearing (even Hostile) on the map, ignoring adja-
cency and paths, without exhausting any ☑.

E. Hirelings
E.1 GAINING AND LOSING HIRELINGS
E.1.1 Gaining from Supply. When a player's score
marker enters a space with a hireling marker, they
take the hireling marker and place it below their
Evening (as a reminder). At the end of their turn,
they take any hireling card from the supply, roll
for control (1.2), and flip over the hireling marker.
E.1.2 Rolling for Control. When a player gains a hire-
ling card, they roll the control die and place con-

# Page 21
trol markers on the hireling card equal in number
to the die roll. They count only the gold die pips
if they have the most victory points or are tied for
the most; they count all the die pips otherwise (in-
cluding if they have activated a dominance card).
E.1.3 Gaining from Another Player. At the end of a
player's turn, they must remove one control mark-
er from each hireling card they gained on previ-
ous turns. Then, they must give each hireling card
they control that has no control markers, along
with a hireling marker, to any other player (even
the player with the highest score). That player puts the
hireling marker below their Evening (as a remind-
er) and immediately rolls for control (1.2).

E.2 ABILITIES AND ACTIONS
Hirelings have various actions and abilities, as shown
by unique icons. Actions and abilities that start with
"Controller:" are gained by the hireling's controller.
E.2.1 When-Hired Action (). When they take con-
trol of the hireling, the controlling player must
take this action.
E.2.2 Ability(). This ability is always active or it
specifies when it happens.
E.2.3 Start-of-Birdsong Action (). At the start of
their Birdsong, the controlling player must or
may take this action, as the action describes.
E.2.4 Once-Per-Daylight Action (0). Once in
their Daylight, the controlling player may take
this action.

E.3 RULES
E.3.1 Rule. A hireling's controller treats hireling pieces
as their own only for rule. (The controller can rule a
clearing even with hirelings alone.) Uncontrolled hire-
lings can rule clearings as if they were players (2.5).
E.3.2 Enemy Status. A hireling is an enemy to players
other than its controller and players in coalition
with its controller.
E.3.3 Separate Pieces. Hireling pieces are not the con-
troller's faction pieces. (So, the Duchy cannot count
them as Duchy pieces to sway, the Keepers cannot re-
move them to encamp, etc.).
E.3.4 Separate Actions. A hireling's Move or Battle ac-
tions can only move or battle with the hireling's
pieces and cannot include the controller's pieces.
Hirelings cannot take actions in other ways (such
as from their controller's Move actions, False Orders, or
the Vagabond's Allied Relationship).
E.3.5 Separate Effects. Hirelings cannot use their con-
troller's abilities, crafted persistent effects, or am-
bush cards. (So, a hireling could not use Boat Builders
while moving, and the Highway Bandits could not be
placed on a river. A hireling's controller could not play
an ambush card while battling with the hireling.)
E.3.6 No Scoring from Removal. A hireling's control-
ler does not score victory points if their hireling
removes an enemy piece (usually in battle). (Play-
ers can still score points by removing hireling buildings
and tokens, even when defending in battle against the
hireling. Players still score as normal if the Warm Sun
Prophets force that player's faction pieces to battle.)
E.3.7 Weird Stuff. If you move a hireling with the Ferry,
you do draw a card. If you move hireling warriors
into a clearing with an Alliance sympathy token
or remove Alliance sympathy by using a hireling,
this does trigger Outrage. (These effects refer to a
"player moving" or "player removing.")

F. Landmarks
F.1 GENERAL RULES
F.1.1 Safety. Landmarks cannot be battled, moved, or
removed, unless noted explicitly by a landmark.
F.1.2 Ownership. Landmarks are not owned by any fac-
tion and are not enemy pieces.

G. Glossary
G.1.1 Ability. A persistent effect of a faction as listed
at the top of its faction board and in its Faction
Rules and Abilities section, or a persistent effect
of a hireling as listed on its hireling card (E.2.1).
G.1.2 Adjacent. A clearing is adjacent to all other clear-
ings linked to it by a path. A forest is adjacent to
all clearings that touch it without crossing a path,
and it is adjacent to all forests that are separated
by only one path, except on the lake (C.2.4).
G.1.3 Building. A square cardboard piece owned by its
faction.
G.1.4 Cannot. See 1.1.2.
G.1.5 Discard. Place the prompted card in the shared
discard pile (2.1). If it is a dominance card, place
it near the map instead (3.3.3).
G.1.6 Draw. Take the top card from the shared deck (2.1).
G.1.7 Effect. Anything that changes the game, includ-
ing persistent effects, faction abilities, and actions.
G.1.8 Enemy. Any other player that you are not in a co-
alition with (9.2.8), or a hireling that is in the sup-
ply or held by an enemy player.
G.1.9 Enemy Piece. A faction piece of an enemy player
or a hireling piece of an enemy hireling, except
while you're treating the piece as your own for
rule (Riverfolk mercenaries, controlled hirelings, etc.).
(Items cannot be enemy pieces.)
G.1.10 Faction Piece. All the warriors, pawns, buildings,
and tokens listed on the back of a faction board.
(Items are not faction pieces.) See 1.5.2.
G.1.11 Forest. An area on the map enclosed by paths and
clearings.
G.1.12 Force. See 1.5.5.
G.1.13 Item. A square cardboard piece showing an item
,, etc.) that is not owned by any faction.
G.1.14 Map. See 2.2.
21

# Page 22
22
G.1.15 Map Edge. The single closed loop of clearings
and paths that define the map boundary, includ-
ing closed paths on the mountain map.
G.1.16 Path. A white link between two clearings.
G.1.17 Pawn. A wooden figure owned by its faction.
G.1.18 Piece. Any component-building, token, warrior,
pawn, item, marker, and so on.
G.1.19 Place. Take the prompted piece from the prompt-
ed source and put it in the prompted destination.
Usually, no source is specified-in this case, take
it from its supply, or take the leftmost prompted
piece if it is on a track. Put is shorthand for Place.
G.1.20 Play Area. The area around your faction board.
Cards in it can only be spent, discarded, or used
for other purposes if explicitly instructed.
G.1.21 Replace. Shorthand for REMOVE then PLACE. Re-
move the prompted piece and place the other
prompted piece in location from which the first
was removed. You must complete all steps of the
REPLACE in order to do it.
G.1.22 Remove. Take the prompted piece from the
prompted source and return it to the prompted
destination. Usually, no destination is specified-
in this case, return it to its owner's supply, return
it to the rightmost empty space of its track it has
one, or remove it permanently otherwise. (Items
are removed permanently.)
G.1.23 Reveal. Place the prompted card face up in your
play area. Usually, no source is specified-in this
case, take it from your hand.
G.1.24 River. A blue link between two clearings.
G.1.25 Ruin. Piece covering an "R" slot in a clearing (2.2.4).
G.1.26 Rule. See 2.5.
G.1.27 Show. Let the prompted player see the prompt-
ed piece.
G.1.28 Slot. White box in a clearing (2.2.3).
G.1.29 Spend. See Discard. (These terms are equivalent,
but SPEND is used in contexts with choice.)
G.1.30 Supply. The collection of pieces that is not on a
faction board or the map. The item supply is the
collection of items on the map.
G.1.31 Swap. Switch the locations of the two prompted
pieces. (This ignores Move and PLACE restrictions, such
as the Corvids' snare and the Marquise's keep.)
G.1.32 Token. A circular cardboard piece owned by its
faction.
G.1.33 Treat. The prompted thing takes on the proper-
ties of the second prompted thing. While you treat
enemy pieces as your own for rule, they are not
enemy pieces, but they are still faction pieces of
that enemy player. (For example, Riverfolk warriors
you've hired as mercenaries are not enemy pieces to
you, but they are still Riverfolk faction pieces.)
G.1.34 Warrior. A wooden figure owned by its faction.
(The Vagabond pawn is not a warrior and cannot
be removed.)
INDEX
Ambush cards, 2.1.2
in battle, 4.3.1
Battle, 4.3
ambushing in, 4.3.1
defenseless rule for, 4.3.3.II
ending early, 4.3.1.II
Bots, A.3
Cards
ambush, 2.1.2
birds are wild rule of, 2.1.1
dominance, 2.1.3
drawing and discarding, 2.1
giving to other players, 1.3.2
suits of, 2.1
Clearings
adjacency of, 2.2.1
homeland, A.8.2.I-II
on lake map, С.2.3
slots in, 2.2.3
suits of, 2.2.2
ruins in, 2.2.4
Craft, 4.1
cost of, 4.1.1
scoring points with, 3.2.2
three-color question marks in, 4.1.1
Decks, A.2
Defenseless rule, 4.3.3.II
Dominance cards, 2.1.3
activating, 3.3.1
discarding and spending, 3.3.3
hand limit and, 3.3.2
taking available, 3.3.4
winning with, 3.3.1.I-II
Faction
drafting in advanced setup, A.8
pieces, 1.5.2
standard setup, 5.1.1, 5.1.7
Ferry piece, C.2.5
Forests, 2.4
on lake map, С.2.4
on mountain map, C.3.5
Glossary, Appendix G

# Page 23
Hirelings
rules for, Appendix E
setup for, A.6
Hits
dealing, 4.3.4
defenseless rule for, 4.3.3.II
extra, 4.3.3.1
maximum rolled, 4.3.2.I
rolling, 4.3.2
taking, 4.3.4
Homelands, A.8.2.I-II
Information, 1.2
Lake, C.2.2
Landmarks
rules for, Appendix F
setup for, A.5
Maps
rules for, Appendix C
setup for, A.1
Move, 4.2
rule is needed for, 4.2.1
same piece multiple times, 4.2.2
using the Ferry, C.2.5
Negotiation, 2.1
Pass, The, C.3.4
Paths, 2.2
on mountain map, C.3.2-C.3.3
Persistent effects, 4.1.3
no duplicates of, 4.1.4
Pieces
limits of, 1.5.1
list of, Appendix B
manipulating, 1.5.4
ownership of, 1.5.3
Reach, 5.2
Rivers, 2.3
on lake map, С.2
on winter map, C.1
Rule, 2.5
no rule on tie, 2.5
Rules conflicts, 1.1
Setup
advanced, Appendix A
standard, 5.1
Scoring
by crafting, 3.2.2
by removing enemy buildings and tokens, 3.2.1
Terminology, Appendix G
Timing
game structure and, 1.4.1
interrupts and, 1.4.2
simultaneous things and, 1.1.3
Tower piece, C.3.4
Winning
by dominance, 3.3
by victory points, 3.1
simultaneously, 3.1
23

# Page 24
24
Cole dedicates this game to his younger brothers and
sisters, who never let him forget how to play.

Kyle dedicates this game to his children, who have
always requested cute animal drawings.

CREDITS
ROOT & RIVERFOLK
Cole Wehrle (lead design, devel-
opment, co-lead graphic design),
Kyle Ferrin (illustration, co-lead
graphic design), Patrick Leder
(concept, development), Joshua
Yearsley (editing, development),
Nick Brachmann (development, graphic design), Clayton
Capra (development), Jake Tonding (development), Jaime
Willems (graphic design), Kate Unrau (proofreading)

UNDERWORLD
Patrick Leder (lead design), Kyle Ferrin (illustration), Nick
Brachmann (lead development, lead graphic design), Cole
Wehrle (development, graphic design), Joshua Yearsley (edit-
ing, development), Kate Unrau (proofreading)

MARAUDER
Patrick Leder (co-lead design), Cole Wehrle (co-lead design),
Kyle Ferrin (illustration), Nick Brachmann (lead development,
design, graphic design), Pati Hyun (lead graphic design, pre-
press), Joshua Yearsley (design, development, editing), Rachel
Lapidow (proofreading), Kate Unrau (proofreading)

STAFF AT PRINTING
Patrick Leder, Kyle Ferrin, Caryl Tan, Cole Wehrle,
Nick Brachmann, Clayton Capra, Pati Hyun, Brooke Nelson,
Joshua Yearsley, Ted Caya, Claire Donaghue, Andrea
Francisco, Anne Kinner

PLAYTESTING
Grayson Page and his amazing group (inc. Martin, Jared, Rich-
ard, Tony, Harvey), Chas Threlkeld, Drew Wehrle, Blake Wehr-
le, Corey Porter, Kyle Kirk, Matthew Root, Mark von Minden,
Davey Janik-Jones, the stalwart players of First Minnesota, Jim
Bolland, Melissa Lewis-Gentry and Modern Myths, Jennifer
Gutterman and Hampshire College, Matthew Snow, Justin
Dowd and the Brass Cat, the Owl & Raven crew, Josh Hous-
er, Brian Peterson, Ethan Zimmerman, Brandi Leder, Heath-
er Brian, Ted Scamp, Jenny and Matt Benusa, Andrew Olson,
Joel McGuire, Nathaniel Hicklin, Jacob Resler, Rae Kawalek,
Nick Sopkowiak, Aaron Greatorex-Voith, Nicole Szajner, and
the Brooklyn Game Lab (Robert Hewitt, Jack DeWald, Joseph
Esbenshade, Nahvid Etedali, David Kanof, Marceline Leiman,
Jill Pullara), Dāvis Dālmanis, Luke Bridwell, Justin Keenan,
Bryan Vogel, Nick “Nev” Burton, Doug Radcliffe, Jeremy Li-
les, Kovács Botond, Mark Overstreet, Hung Nguyen, Luke
McNally, Joshua Clark Orkin, Guerric Samples, Hunter C
Fyffe, Steve Owen, Jon Mott, Sam De Roest, Sarah Shirley, Mi-
chela Garber, Patrick Flores Velarde, Lili Chin, Christina Berk-
ley, Sebastian Apel, Opie's Funeral, and many others

Need a replacement part?
ledergames.com/replacements

Learn more about Root:
ledergames.com/root
Key References
CRAFT (4.1)
Play a card and activate the crafting pieces of the suits
listed in its bottom-left corner. (Vagabond exhausts.)
The suit of a crafting piece matches its clearing, and
you can activate each crafting piece only once per turn.

If you craft an IMMEDIATE EFFECT, resolve it and discard
the card. Often these effects will let you take an item
from the supply on the map and score victory points.
If the item supply on the map does not have the listed
item to take, you cannot craft the card.

Π If you craft a PERSISTENT EFFECT, place the card in your
play area. You may use its effect. You cannot craft a per-
sistent effect if you have one of the same name.

MOVE (4.2)
Take any of your warriors and pawns from one clearing
and move them to one adjacent clearing.

You must rule the origin, destination, or both. A given
piece can be moved any number of times per turn.

BATTLE (4.3)
You can battle in a clearing with your warriors or pawn.
Step 1: Defender May Ambush. Attacker may cancel
defender's ambush card by also playing ambush card.

Step 2: Roll Dice. Attacker will deal hits equal to higher
roll. Defender will deal hits equal to lower roll.

The maximum hits you can deal by rolling equals your
number of warriors in the clearing of battle.

Step 3: Use Effects. The players may use optional effects
that affect battle now. Many deal EXTRA HITS, which are
not limited by warriors.

Defenseless: If the defender has no warriors in the clear-
ing of battle, the attacker deals an extra hit.

Step 4: Deal Hits. Each hit removes one piece-
warriors first, then buildings and tokens, as chosen by
the player taking the hits.

Remember: Score a victory point each time
you remove an enemy building or token.

SETUP (5.1)
Step 1: Assign factions, then determine starting player
and seating order randomly. Give board and pieces.

Step 2: Place score markers on the "0" space.

Step 3: Draw and give three cards to each player.

Step 4: Place ruins in the four slots marked with "R."

Step 5: Form item supply near the top of the map.

Step 6: Gather dice and overview cards if desired.

Step 7: Set up factions in setup order (A, B, C, etc.).
```

--- End of root_law.pdf ---

Page 1
ROOT
A Game of Woodland Might and Right
Learning
to Play
Table of Contents
Introduction..
2
Walkthrough
3
Setup......
4
The Map
5
The Cards
6
Battling.
8
Marquise de Cat
.10
Eyrie Dynasties
12
Woodland Alliance
14
Vagabond
17
Dominance Cards
.21
Scenarios
.22
The Winter Map
.23
Page 2
2
Introduction
Root is a fast-paced game of adventure and war. You will play as one of four factions
vying to show that you are the most legitimate ruler of the vast Woodland.
Flow of Play
Each turn is split into three phases: BirdsONG, DAYLIGHT, and
EVENING. Once you play through these phases in order, your turn
ends, and the player to your left begins their turn. The three phases
are described in detail on each player's faction board.
forest. Now y
ay you can place
build a kingdom worthy pieces in the clearing
with the keep token.
of your name.
you
warri
Birdsong
Place one wood
at each sawmill.
Daylight
1 Craft using workshops.
2nd Take up to 3 actions, plus one per
Battle
March
Take two moves.
Recruit
you spend.
Once per turn, place one warrior at each recruiter.
Build
In a clearing you rule, place a building, spendir spending its cost in
wood connected through any number of ruled clearings.
• Overwork
Spend a card to place
clearing.
Evening
wood at a sawmill in a matching
Draw 1 card, plus 1 card per showing. Discard down to 5 cards.
Victory and Gaining Victory Points
You can win in one of two ways: score 30 victory points or play and complete a
dominance card. Dominance cards cannot be played early in the game, so we recommend
learning about them later—they are described more on page 21.
In Root, you will play one of four factions. Each scores victory points in its own way.
The invading Marquise de Cat wishes to exploit the Woodland, using its
vast resources to fuel her economic and military machine. She scores by
constructing buildings in the Woodland.
The proud Eyrie Dynasties wish to reclaim the glory of their once-great
aristocracy and retake the Woodland from the Marquise. They score each turn
by building and protecting roosts in the Woodland.
The upstart Woodland Alliance wish to unite the creatures of the forest and rise
up against their oppressors. They score by spreading sympathy for their cause
across the Woodland.
The wily Vagabond wishes to gain fame-or infamy—in the midst of this brewing
conflict. He scores by completing quests for the creatures of the Woodland and
by aiding and harming the other factions.
As you read on, you'll learn more about the factions and how they score points, along
with a couple ways that any faction can score points.
witers
Workshops
Sawmills Cost
Page 3
Walkthrough
If your group learns by playing and wants to jump into Root without needing a long
rules explanation, you can use our robust walkthrough, as described below.
Skip this page if your group prefers to learn most of the rules before starting play.
Even if you use this walkthrough, someone should carefully read this learning-to-play
guide before your group meets to play. We'll assume this person is you.
Preparing
Set up the game as described on the next page, but make these changes:
1
st Seat the factions in this clockwise order: Marquise, Eyrie,
Alliance, Vagabond. Along with their faction board, hand
each player their faction's walkthrough card.
3
rd Do not draw 3 cards for each player. Instead, the walkthrough
cards will tell the players to take specific cards from the deck.
7th Follow the setup on the walkthrough cards, not on the faction
board backs. Everyone sets up at the same time, not in order.
Playing
When you start playing, give the walkthrough sheet to the
Marquise player, and ask them to read the text in the Marquise's
box aloud as they're taking the actions described. When their turn
is over, pass the sheet to the Eyrie player, and have them read their
actions aloud as well. After everyone has taken their first turn, flip
the sheet over and go through the second turn, as before.
Walkthrough
1st Place the keep and 1 sawmill
in the top-left fox clearing.
(The keep does not fill a slot.)
nd Place 1 warrior in each
2
3rd
th
4th
clearing, except diagonally
opposite from keep. (11 total.)
Place 1 workshop and 1
recruiter on map as shown
on walkthrough sheet.
Place rest of buildings on
your faction board tracks,
from right to left.
5th Take these cards from the
shared deck into your hand:
(Bird) Brutal Tactics
(Rabbit) Better Burrow Bank
(Mouse) Travel Gear
Walkthrough Card
Learn-to-Play Walkthrough
For your first game, pass around this sheet and ask each player to read the actions
of their faction while taking their turn. After everyone finishes their first turn, flip
this sheet over and continue the walkthrough.
Turn 1 introduces these concepts:
NOTE: ONLY THE
Darquise (1st player)
Birdsong. I place a wood at my sawmill
Daylight, Action 1: Build. I spend that wood to
build a new sawmill, so I score one point.
Daylight, Action 2: March. I move my warrior first to
the
clearing, then move both warriors
to the fox clearing. To take a move, I must rule
the clearing I'm moving from or moving to, which I
Day
Recruit
Alliance
(3rd player)
Birdsong, Spread Sympathy
I spend a fox card on my
Supporters star
central fox clearing and
a point.
Crossbow car
activat
sympathy to score a point and take the
from the item supply on the map.
Daylight, Mobilize. I add my other
cards to my Supporters stack
Evening. I haven't had a revolt
yet, so I don't have any officers.
officers means no actions in
ng, so all that's
Turn 1
structure, battle, movement, crafting, and rule.
Eyrie (and player)
NARRATED
Birdsong. First, I add two rabbit cards to the Recruit
column of my Decree.
Daylight, Decree. First 1 recruit
placing two
warriors at at my roost. Next I three warriors
from the rabbit clearing west to the mouse clearing
Bird cards are always wild, so I'm treating this bird a
rabbit. Then, because I rule the mouse clearing and it
oost, I build a roost there.
Evening. I have
the map, so I score
Then,
car
Vagabond
(4th player)
Birdsong, Sip. I'll slip into
the central fox clearing
Daylight, Aid. 1 exhaust
orch to give
card to
Alliance and take their
rossbow Our relationship
Daylight, Move.
Daylight, Move. I exha
the mouse clearing
Daylight, Strike. I exhaust s
Eyric warrior, which mo
Daylight, Battle. 1 exhaust my
relationship
battle the
Eyric. I roll a 1 and o, and I use the higher roll
because I'm the attacker. I deal one
so this removes one Eyrie warrior.
point becaus
Finally, I draw a card
Walkthrough Sheet
Throughout this process, encourage everyone to ask questions. You
will likely be able to answer questions about shared concepts such
as moving and battling with little reference to this guide. If someone
asks about their faction, encourage them to look over their faction
board-it is designed to answer most of those questions. Don't be dismayed if play is in-
terrupted to explain the finer points of battling or crafting. For most players, Root is best
learned organically. After a few rounds, the game should flow seamlessly.
3
Page 4
Setup
If playing with three players, remove the Vagabond. If playing with two, also remove the
Alliance. For more faction mixes, see page 22.
1
st Choose Factions. Each player chooses a faction
board and takes all of their faction's pieces.
2nd
The back of each faction board lists all of
its pieces and gives its basics of play.
لو
and Set Scores. Place the score marker for each
faction in play on “o” on the score track.
3rd Deal Cards. Shuffle the shared deck of 54 cards,
and deal three cards to each player.
Do not confuse this shared deck with the
types of cards used by specific factions, as
listed on the backs of their faction boards.
60
VPVP VPVP
لو
4
4th Place Ruins. Place the four ruin chits on the
four slots on the map marked with "R.”
5
th Make Item Supply. Gather the 12 item chits
shown to the right and place them on their
matching spaces near the top of the map.
6th Gather Other Pieces. Hand out the 16 faction
overview cards as desired, and place the two cus-
tom dice near the map.
7th Set Up Factions. The players set up their
factions, as described in Setup on the back of
each faction board, in this order: Marquise,
Eyrie, Alliance, Vagabond.
بل
Overview view lew lew
بل
Step (A)
Plowing the Margie
3
Page 5
Path
Forest
The Map
Most action in Root unfolds on the map of the Woodland,
consisting of 12 CLEARINGS connected by PATHS.
لو
A river runs through some clearings. Only use the river if
the Riverfolk Company, an expansion faction, is in play.
Moving Around the Map
You can move from clearing to clearing. When you move,
take any number of your warriors from one clearing and
move them to a clearing connected by a path.
The spaces on the Map enclosed by paths are forests,
which only the Vagabond can move into.
To move, you must rule the clearing you are moving
from or moving to.
You rule a clearing if you have the most combined
warriors and buildings there. On a tie, no one is ruler.
لو
Various other actions in Root will require you to rule clearings.
Dove Example
The Eyrie want to move
out of this clearing, which
they don't rule.
*
00
00
00
00
لو
Slot
Clearing
00
00
Warriors
They don't rule this
clearing either, so they
cannot move here.
Buildings
They do rule this
clearing, so they
can move here.
Tokens
5
Page 6
Clearings
Each clearing on the map has one to three slots,
which hold buildings that players will place.
A clearing with no open slots cannot hold more
buildings.
لو
Slots filled with ruins cannot hold buildings until
the Vagabond explores them. Without a Vagabond,
these slots will be blocked for the entire game.
Each clearing also has a suit: fox, rabbit, or mouse.
A clearing's suit represents the community living there.
Though both slots in this clearing are
full, tokens can still be placed here.
A clearing's suit is shown both by its symbol and by the color of the clearing's trees.
The Cards
Throughout play, you will draw cards from Root's shared deck
into your hand, and many actions will require you to spend cards
from your hand. Spending a card represents calling upon animals to
lend you their labor, to do you a favor, or to broker a deal.
Just like clearings, each card has a sUIT. Besides the fox, rabbit,
and mouse suits, cards have a fourth suit: BIRD.
لو
&
Once in Daylight, may look
Codebreakers
at another player's hand.
Birds Are Wild: The birds live in the treetops across the whole Woodland, so you can
always treat a bird card as a mouse, fox, or rabbit card. However, if you must spend a
bird card, you can't substitute a card of another suit.
Matching Example
Let's say you want to
act in a fox clearing.
If the action said you must spend a
matching card, you could spend a
fox or a bird card, since birds are wild.
OR
6
Page 7
Crafting Cards
Most cards have a second use-you can craft the card
to gain its effect, shown at the bottom.
To craft a card, you must activate crafting pieces in
the clearings shown in the card's bottom-left corner.
You can activate each crafting piece only once per turn.
Each faction has a different crafting piece, as follows.
Crafting Pieces
Marquise crafts
with workshops.
Gently Used Knapsack
Then
discard.
Eyrie crafts
with roosts.
Immediate Effect
Alliance crafts
with sympathy.
Vagabond crafts
with hammers.
If the card gives you an IMMEDIATE
EFFECT, resolve it and then discard
the card.
A common immediate effect is to take an ITEM from the
map's supply and place it in the Crafted Items box in
the top-right corner of your faction board.
لو
VP Whenever you craft an item, you score the
victory points listed on the card!
If the supply does not have the matching item to take,
you cannot craft the card.
If the card gives a PERSISTENT EFFECT, tuck the card
Crafting Example
The Marquise wants to craft
a Gently Used Knapsack,
which costs one mouse.
Gently Used Knapsack
Then
discard.
,
The Marquise crafts by
activating workshops.
Daylight
1 Craft using workshops.
M
Across the map, the Marquise
has two fox workshops and two
mouse workshops.
So, the Marquise can activate
one of these mouse workshops to
craft this card!
+1
She takes the matching item from
the supply, scores one victory
point, and discards the card.
under your faction board to show only its effect, which you may use as written.
Brutal Tactics
In battle as attacker, may deal
an extra hit, but defender
scores one point.
Persistent Effect
You may not craft a card with a persistent effect if you already have
one of the same name.
7
Page 8
8
Battling
You can BATTLE other players to remove their
pieces from the map.
When you battle, choose any clearing where you
have any warriors. You are the attacker, and you
choose another faction with any pieces there as
the defender.
BROADLY, A BATTLE HAS TWO STEPS:
» First, roll two dice. The attacker deals hits
equal to the higher roll, and the defender
deals hits equal to the lower roll. However,
each player can roll no more hits than their
number of warriors in the clearing of battle.
» Then, remove pieces. Both players remove
pieces at the same time. The player taking
hits chooses which pieces to remove, but
must remove all their own warriors in the
clearing of battle before removing any of
their own buildings or tokens there.
Whenever you remove an enemy
VP building or token-even outside
battle-you score a victory point!
Extra Hits
Some effects allow you to deal EXTRA HITS.
Battle Example
The Eyrie attack the Marquise.
First...
00
00
00
00
The Eyrie roll the dice.
As the attacker, they
take the higher result.
Then...
3
Ο
Both sides deal hits. Because the Eyrie
only have two warriors, they can only
deal two hits. The Marquise deals zero
hits.
00
+1
00
00
The Marquise returns two pieces to
her supply, and the Eyrie score a
victory point for removing a token.
Extra hits represent superior positioning, tactics, or leadership. They are not limited by the
number of warriors in the clearing of battle, so a single warrior could deal multiple hits.
The attacker deals an extra hit if the defender has no warriors in the clearing of battle,
leaving themselves DEFENSELESS.
Page 9
Ambush Cards
Before the roll in battle, the defender may play an
AMBUSH CARD whose suit matches the clearing
of battle to deal two hits immediately.
Since ambushes deal hits immediately, they can reduce
the maximum number of hits the attacker can roll.
Ambush Example
The Eyrie attack the Marquise.
00
00
00
00
However, if the defender plays an ambush card,
the attacker can foil the ambush, canceling its
effect, by also playing a matching ambush card.
Like extra hits, ambush hits are not limited by
your number of warriors in the clearing of battle.
You can even play an ambush card if you're
DEFENSELESS! If you've got an ambush card
in hand, don't be afraid to bait your enemies
into attacking you where you seem weak.
کر
But...
The Marquise plays a
bird ambush card!
Birds are wild, so this
card matches the
mouse clearing.
Ambush!
You may ambush in any clearing.
At start of battle, defender may play to
deal two immediate hits, unless attacker
plays a matching ambush card.
The Eyrie cannot foil the ambush,
so they must remove two warriors,
returning them to their supply.
The battle ends.
If an ambush card removes all of the attacker's
warriors, the battle immediately ends.
"
リ
00
00
9
Page 10
10
Marquise de Cat
The Marquise de Cat occupies the Woodland and wants to turn it into an industrial and military powerhouse.
Each time the Marquise builds one of her buildings—a workshop, sawmill, or recruiter—she scores victory
points. The more of the same building she has on the map, the more points she scores. However, to fuel ongoing
construction, the Marquise must maintain and protect a strong, interconnected economy of wood.
The Keep of Marquise de Cat grants two special abilities while it is on the map. First, no
one but the Marquise can place pieces in the clearing with the keep token. Also, whenev-
er Marquise warriors would be removed, the Marquise may call on her Field Hospitals,
spending a card matching the warriors' clearing to place them back in the clearing with
the keep token.
Birdsong
Place one wood token at each sawmill.
Daylight
First, you can craft any cards in your hand using workshops. Then, you can take up to
three of the following actions.
Battle: Initiate a battle.
» March: Take two moves.
لو
Hawks for Hire: After taking three actions,
you may take any number of extra actions
by spending a bird card per extra action.
لو
» Recruit: Place one warrior at each recruiter. You may take this action only once per
turn.
» Build: Place one building in a clearing you rule with an open slot by spending wood
tokens equal to its cost. You may spend any wood on the map connected to this clear-
ing by any number of clearings you rule. When you place the building, score the victo-
ry points revealed on your faction board.
» Overwork: Spend a card to place one wood token at one sawmill in a clearing whose
suit matches the card spent.
لو
Unless otherwise noted, a faction may take actions listed in the same phase
in any order, and may take a given action multiple times.
Page 11
Daylight Example
First, the Marquise decides to craft the Gently Used Knap-
sack, so she activates one mouse workshop. She scores a
victory point and puts the item in her Crafted Items box.
Then, she begins to take her actions:
She starts by taking the March action, which lets her move twice.
She moves two warriors from a mouse clearing, which
she rules, to a rabbit clearing, which she doesn't.
00
Gently Used Knapsack
Then
discard.
Crafted Items
Vagabond co
u cards to take these items.
00
00
00
00
00
00
00
00
For her second move, she moves another two warriors into
the clearing. She now rules the rabbit clearing.
For her second and third actions, she takes the Overwork
action twice, spending a mouse and a bird card to put
two extra wood in a mouse clearing with a sawmill.
Though she has taken three actions, she would like to go
again, so she spends a bird card to get an extra action
(Hawks for Hire). With this action she decides to build.
Because she rules the rabbit clearing, she can now build in
its empty slot. The next sawmill to be built costs three wood,
so she spends wood from the nearby mouse clearing. Then,
she scores three victory points.
Evening
2
3
3
D
+2
+3
Draw one card plus one card per uncovered draw bonus. Then, if you have more than five
cards in your hand, discard down to five.
Most of the other factions draw and discard during Evening in exactly the same way.
لو
11
Page 12
Eyrie Dynasties
間
The Eyrie Dynasties wish to restore their once-dignified kind to their former glory in the Woodland by resettling
the forest clearings. During their Evening, the Eyrie score victory points from their number of roosts on the
map. The greater their presence, the greater their gains. However, the Eyrie are bound by their Decree, an
ever-increasing set of mandated actions promised by their leader. Each turn, they must take all of the actions
on their Decree, or else fall into turmoil.
The Eyrie are the Lords of the Forest. They rule a clearing even when tied for presence.
However, their Disdain for Trade means they score less when crafting items.
Birdsong
You must add one or two cards onto any columns in
the Decree. Only one card added may be a bird card.
Daylight
First, you may craft any number of cards, using roosts.
لو
Emergency Orders: If you have no cards
at the start of Birdsong, draw one.
A New Roost: If you have no roosts,
place one roost and three warriors in
the clearing with the fewest warriors.
Then, you must resolve the Decree, starting with the leftmost column and moving right.
In each column, you may resolve cards in any order.
For each card in a column, you must take the action listed by the column in a clearing
matching the card. Here are the actions in the four columns of the Decree:
» Recruit: Place a warrior in a matching clearing with a roost.
» Move: Move at least one warrior from a matching clearing.
» Battle: Initiate a battle in a matching clearing.
» Build: Place a roost in a matching clearing you rule with an open slot and no roost.
Evening
First, score the victory points shown on the rightmost empty
space of your Roosts track.
Then, draw one card plus one per uncovered draw bonus. If you
12 have more than five cards in your hand, discard down to five.
+
+2
Roosts
+3
Page 13
Turmoil
If you cannot take an action for any reason, you fall into TURMOIL. Follow these steps:
» First, your regime is humiliated. Lose one victory point per bird card in the Decree.
» Then, your court is purged. Discard all of the cards in the Decree except the two Loyal
Vizier bird cards.
» Next, your leader is deposed. Flip your current leader face down and set it aside,
choose a new leader from those face up, and place it on your faction board. Then, tuck
your Loyal Viziers into the Decree spaces listed on your new leader.
» Finally, you rest. End Daylight and go to Evening.
There are many ways to fall into turmoil! For example, you might not have any warriors in your supply
to recruit, or maybe all the clearings you rule already have a roost, meaning you can't build any more.
Decree Example
The Eyrie's Decree has a bird and
fox card in the Recruit column, and
a rabbit card in the Move column, a
bird card on the Battle column, and
a bird card on the Build column.
Recruit
...in a clearing with a roost.
Move
Battle
Build
in a clearing you rule
without a roost
The Decree
ies
00
00
00
00
00
Next, the Eyrie
must move at least
one warrior from
a rabbit clearing.
For the recruit, Eyrie choose to treat the bird
card as a fox card and so place two warriors
in a fox clearing with a roost.
00
00
00
00
2
Then, the Eyrie must battle.
They only have a target in
the rabbit clearing.
In the battle the Eyrie and
Marquise each lose one warrior.
Finally, the Eyrie must place a roost in a clearing they rule that does not have a roost
already. They have nowhere to place a roost, so the dynasty enters turmoil!
00
13
Page 14
14
Woodland Alliance
The Woodland Alliance works to gain the sympathy of the various oppressed creatures of the Woodland. Each
time the Alliance places a sympathy token, they score victory points. The more sympathy on the map, the more
victory points they score. Gaining the sympathy of the people requires supporters, cards on the Alliance's fac-
tion board. These supporters can also be put toward violent revolt. A revolt establishes a new base, allowing
the Alliance to train officers that increase their military flexibility.
The Alliance are experts in Guerrilla War. When defending in battle, the Alliance uses the
higher roll and the attacker uses the lower roll.
Supporters, Sympathy, and Outrage
To act as the Alliance, you often spend SUPPORTERS-cards کم
in your Supporters stack. Supporters are separate from your
hand of cards, and you can only spend supporters for their
suit. For example, you couldn't craft a card in the Supporters
stack or play an ambush card there to deal hits.
Supporter Limits: If you don't
have a base on the map, you may
only have up to five supporters.
Discard any excess cards.
Supporters are often spent to place sympathy tokens. Placing sympathy is the main way
you score victory points, and sympathy can gain you more supporters through Outrage.
Whenever another player removes a sympathy token or moves any warriors into a clearing
with a sympathy token, they must add a card from their hand matching that clearing to
your Supporters stack. If they don't have a matching card, they show you their hand, and
then you draw a card from the deck and add it to your Supporters stack.
Outrage Example
Supporters Stack
The Eyrie would like to move into the fox
clearing. Because it has a sympathy token,
they must pay one fox card to the Alliance's
Supporters stack.
00
00
Then the Eyrie battle in the fox clearing and
remove the sympathy token. They must now
pay another fox card to the Supporters stack.
The Eyrie pay a bird card. If they couldn't
pay, the Alliance would have drawn a card
from the deck to add to their Supporters stack.
Page 15
Birdsong
You may revolt any number of times, and then spread sympathy any number of times.
» Revolt: Spend two supporters matching a sympathetic clearing. Remove all enemy
pieces there and place the matching base. Then, place warriors there equal to the num-
ber of sympathetic clearings matching the suit of the revolt clearing, including the
revolt clearing itself. Last, place a warrior in the Officers box.
و Whenever you remove a base, you'll have to remove half your officers and discard
all supporters matching the suit of that base—even your bird supporters!
Spread Sympathy: Place a sympathy token in an unsym-
pathetic clearing, adjacent to a sympathetic clearing if
possible. You must spend supporters as shown by the
cost on your Sympathy track. If the target clearing has
three or more warriors of another player, you must spend
another matching supporter to place sympathy there.
لو
Sympathy
2
3
+1
If there are no sympathy tokens on the board, you can place your first sympathy in any clearing.
Birdsong Example
At the start of Birdsong, the Alliance sees a
sympathetic fox clearing as a prime target for
revolt, so they take the opportunity, spending
a fox and a bird from their Supporters stack.
Supporters
Stack
XX
00
N
00
00
00
X
Officers
This revolt removes the Eyrie's roost and two Marquise
warriors, and the Alliance scores a victory point for the
removed roost. Because the Alliance has three sympathetic
fox clearings, they place three warriors and a fox base in the
fox clearing of the revolt and one warrior in the Officers box.
XX
X
Then, the Alliance places a sympathy token in a
rabbit clearing. This is the fourth sympathy token, so
it costs two rabbit supporters. Also, because the Eyrie
have three warriors there, the cost increases to three
rabbit supporters. The Alliance places the sympathy
and scores one victory point.
ㅇㅇ
00
00
00
00
00
15
Page 16
16
Daylight
You may take the following actions. Unlike in Birdsong, these cards come from your
hand, not your supporters.
» Craft: Craft a card, using sympathy tokens.
» Mobilize: Add a card to the Supporters stack.
Train: Spend a card whose suit matches a built base to place a warrior in the Officers
box. This warrior is now an OFFICER.
لو
Your officers determine the number of military operations you can take during Evening.
Without officers, you can't move or battle with your warriors! Training officers will also let
you recruit new warriors and place sympathy tokens without spending supporters.
Evening
You may take these military operations, up to your
number of officers.
» Move: Take one move.
» Battle: Initiate a battle.
» Recruit: Place a warrior in a clearing with a base.
» Organize: Remove one of your warriors from an unsympathetic clearing to place a
sympathy token there. Score the revealed victory points.
After you finish military operations, draw one card plus one per uncovered draw bonus.
Then, if you have more than five cards in your hand, discard down to five.
Military Operations Example
It is now the start of Evening. The Alliance has three officers, so they can
perform three operations.
First, they choose to
recruit, placing a
warrior at their
00
00
fox base.
00
X
00
Officers
00
00
00
Next, they move two warriors to an
adjacent mouse clearing.
Finally, they organize, removing one of
their warriors to place a sympathy token
in the mouse clearing.
Page 17
Vagabond
111
M
The Vagabond plays all sides of the conflict, making friends and enemies as suit his ends, while going on quests
to increase his renown throughout the wood. As the Vagabond improves his relationships with other factions,
or removes pieces of factions hostile toward him, he scores victory points.
Being a Lone Wanderer, the Vagabond cannot rule a clearing or stop another player from
ruling one, but he is Nimble, so he can move regardless of who rules his clearing.
The Vagabond only has one piece: the VAGABOND PAWN. This pawn can move and battle
just like a warrior, but it is not a warrior.
Items
To move and act effectively as the Vagabond, you must manage your ITEMS, expanding
your selection by exploring the Woodland's RUINS and providing aid to other factions.
At any time, an item can be DAMAGED or UNDAMAGED, and an item can be either face up
or down. You can EXHAUST an undamaged face-up item to perform an action.
face up
exhaust
face down
Damaged
While undamaged,
and are stored on their tracks on the left side of your faction
board, while all other items are stored in your Satchel. You can only carry so many items
in your Satchel, and you will have to discard down to your item capacity during Evening.
Birdsong
Flip two items face up per ☑ on its track at the
start of Birdsong, then flip three more face up.
Then, you may slip once, moving into an adjacent
clearing or forest without exhausting any
Possible Slips
0.0
لو
Slip is the only way you can enter a forest!
17
Page 18
Daylight
You can take various actions by exhausting items, flipping them face down.
» Move: Exhaust a to take a move.
Battle: Exhaust a ☑ to initiate a battle.
Strike: Exhaust a
to remove a warrior in your clearing. If a player has no warriors
there, you can instead remove a building or token of that player.
» Explore: Exhaust a to take one item from a ruin in your clearing and score one vic-
tory point. Remove the ruin from the map.
» Aid: Exhaust any one item, and give a card from your hand matching your clearing to
any player in your clearing. Then, take one item, if any, from their Crafted Items box.
Quest: Claim a quest whose suit matches your clearing by exhausting the two items
listed on the quest. Place the claimed quest into your play area. Then, you may draw two
cards from the deck, or you may score one victory point per quest of this suit that you
have completed, including this one. Finally, draw and put out a new quest.
» Craft: Exhaust equal in number to the suits shown on a card's crafting cost. All of
your match the suit of your clearing.
» Repair: Exhaust a ☑ to repair a damaged item.
» Special Action: Exhaust a to take the action listed on your character card.
Evening
If you are in a forest, repair all of your damaged items.
Then, draw one card, plus one card per on its track. If you have
more than five cards in your hand, discard down to five.
Finally, if you have more items in your Satchel and Damaged box
than your item limit-six plus two per on its track-you must
remove items from your Satchel down to your item limit. Return any
removed items to the box.
لو
Vagabond's
Draw Bonus
Unlike other factions, the Vagabond does not uncover draw bonuses, but instead gets draw bonuses
as items. This item only adds a bonus draw if it is undamaged and face up on its matching track.
18
لو
Page 19
Shifting Items
You can freely move face-up, undamaged
and between your Satchel and their tracks. If
you exhaust a
or
you must move it to
Vagabond
your Satchel.
When an item is damaged, move it to your Dam-
aged box in your Satchel.
When an item is repaired, move it out of the
Damaged box and back to the Satchel.
Relationships
Other items are
placed in the
Satchel.
Coin stacks, tea,
and bags are
placed on tracks.
Your Relationships chart represents how friendly or hostile other factions are toward you.
You can improve a relationship with a faction by giving them cards with the Aid action.
During the same turn, you must take the Aid action the number of times shown between
their current relationship space and the next one. When you improve a relationship, you
score the victory points listed on the new space. When you reach the Allied space, you
may move and battle with that faction's warriors. For more, see Law of Root (9.2.9).
If you ever remove a warrior, place its faction's relationship marker in the Hostile box.
From now on, you score a victory point each time you remove one of their pieces in battle
during your turn, along with any points you score for removing buildings and tokens.
However, you must exhaust another ☑ whenever you move into a clearing with any Hos-
tile warriors.
Aid and Improving Relationships Example
The Vagabond would like to improve
his relationship with the Eyrie.
He shares a fox clearing with
them, so he can target the Eyrie
with the Aid action. Each time, he
must exhaust an item and give a
00
Indifferent
1
+1
+2
23
+2
Ally
May move and
battle with allied
warriors.
fox or bird card. He decides to aid three times.
The Vagabond advances the Eyrie marker two
spaces and scores three victory points.
Score
+2
each Aid.
for
19
Page 20
20
Battling as the Vagabond
Because you don't have warriors, you follow a
few different rules in battle.
The Vagabond pawn is not a warrior, so
you can't rule and you are not affected
by effects that refer to warriors. You
can battle where your pawn is.
» The maximum hits you can deal by
rolling equals your total undamaged
☑, whether exhausted or not.
» You take hits by damaging items of
your choice. If you have no undam-
aged items, you ignore further hits.
» You are defenseless, taking an extra hit,
if you have no undamaged
Vagabond Battle Example
The Vagabond is in a clearing with three Marquise warriors. He has
two face-up swords in his Satchel. After a long and fruitful relationship
with the Marquise, the Vagabond is ready to betray his friend.
The First Battle
He exhausts a sword to battle the Marquise. The Marquise
doesn't play an ambush card. The Vagabond then rolls the
dice, rolling a 1 and a 1. The Vagabond deals one hit and
moves the Marquise's relationship marker to Hostile. The
Marquise also deals one hit, so the Vagabond chooses to
damage the exhausted sword.
The Second Battle
Undeterred, he exhausts his second sword to battle again.
The Marquise doesn't play an ambush card. The Vagabond
then rolls the dice, rolling a 2 and a o. With only one
undamaged sword, the Vagabond can only deal one hit.
Because he removed a warrior of a Hostile faction, the
Vagabond scores one point.
1
00
0.0
00
X
2
Ο
+1
00
0.0
X
Page 21
Dominance Cards
The deck has four dominance cards, one in each suit. Like
ambush cards, these cards cannot be crafted, but they can
be spent for their suit.
When you discard or spend a dominance card for its suit,
do not discard it! Instead, place it near the map. Any player,
during their Daylight, may pick up a dominance card near the
map by spending a card of matching suit.
Changing Your Victory Condition
४
Dominance
IF SPENT FOR SUIT, MAKE AVAILABLE.
If you have at least 10 points, play during
Daylight and remove your score marker.
오오
오
오
a aa
aa
오
오오
오오
오
Q
You win the game if you
rule three rabbit clearings
at the start of your Birdsong.
In games of four or more,
as Vagabond, you may
form a coalition.
During your Daylight, if you have at least 10 victory points, you may play a dominance
card into your play area to ACTIVATE it. Remove your score marker from the score track.
For the rest of the game, you can only win by meeting the victory condition listed on your
activated dominance card.
Your activated dominance card does not count against your hand size, and it cannot be
removed from play or replaced.
Forming a Coalition as the Vagabond
The Vagabond cannot rule clearings, but he can play a
dominance card to form a coalition with the player
other than himself with the lowest score. If there's a tie
for lowest score, the Vagabond chooses which player to
form a coalition with.
When forming a coalition, the Vagabond
removes his score marker from the score
track and places it on the faction board
of that player. Now, the Vagabond will
share the victory if that player wins.
A Vagabond can even form a coalition
with a Hostile faction! If doing so, the
Vagabond moves his partner's relationship
marker to the Indifferent space.
لو
21
Page 22
Scenarios
Root can be played with many combinations of factions. The following list is not exhaus-
tive. Other combinations are possible but may be more fragile and thus require experi-
enced, aggressive players. We offer some recommended mixes (marked with a torch) as
ideal ways to introduce the game to new players.
When playing with two players, do not use the dominance cards. The two player game
is also best played over the course of two full games (each takes about 30-45 minutes).
After the first game, players should record their scores and trade factions. After the second
game, each player should add their scores from both games to determine the winner.
Two Players
Eyrie versus Marquise is an ideal two-player learning game. The
Eyrie must grow explosively to keep the Marquise in check.
Two-player Alliance games offer Alliance players a chance to hone
their skills in difficult situations. They will usually fare better
against the Eyrie, but well-timed revolts and rapid mobilization
can vex the Marquise as well.
Here the Eyrie must be careful to build a Decree that can withstand
the Vagabond's nimble attacks.
Three Players
The struggle between the Marquise and the Eyrie will be
the defining characteristic of these games. Vagabond and
Alliance alike must be careful to pick their friends and not
create a situation that they cannot later control.
Here, the Vagabond will have a natural friend in the Alli-
ance. Both should watch out for dominance victory and not
neglect developing their military strength.
Four Players
22
With the map brimming with interlopers, the Mar-
quise must not neglect policing the Woodland in
the hopes of scoring a few extra victory points. If
she loses control, she will not easily regain it.
Page 23
The Winter Map
The reverse side of the autumn map is the winter map. You can play any mix of factions
on this map, but it is recommended only for experienced players.
Setup
Before playing on the winter map, take out the 12 suit markers, flip them face down, and
shuffle them. Then, place one suit marker near each clearing on the map. After a suit
marker has been added to each clearing, flip them all over, and set up the game as normal.
Note the different placement of ruins, as shown below.
ROOT
A Game of Woodland Dight and Righe
४
४
then place
12 13
15
25 26 27 28 29 30
The Raging River
On the winter map, the river divides forests as if it were a path.
A Warning
On the winter map, the randomness of clearing suits can
introduce many new challenges to each faction. Keep
the map's geography in mind when picking factions,
and understand that certain factions may gain new ad-
vantages and disadvantages in each possible layout.
A Note from Leder Games:
Sometimes errors happen during
manufacturing. If you feel a part
of your game is missing or arrived
damaged please contact us at
our website (www.ledergames.
com) or email us at support@
ledergames.com and we will
be happy to work with you to
replace the missing piece.
23
Page 24
Piece Glossary
00 00
00
Warriors, which can move around
the map and battle pieces of other
players. They add to rule.
Buildings, which start on faction
boards and can be placed in empty
slots in clearings. They add to rule.
Tokens, which can be placed in
clearings but do not fill slots. They
do not add to rule.
VP
Markers, which track things like
victory points and the Vagabond's
relationships with other factions.
Ruins, which fill slots in clearings.
The Vagabond can explore ruins to
find items and empty their slots.
00
The Vagabond Pawn, which can
move around the map and battle
pieces of other players. It is not a
warrior and does not add to rule.
Items, which the Vagabond
exhausts to take actions. All
factions can craft items.
Crafting Pieces
Marquise crafts
with workshops.
Eyrie crafts
with roosts.
Alliance crafts
with sympathy.
Vagabond crafts
with hammers.
HAVE MORE QUESTIONS?
READ THE LAW OF ROOT!